There's a reason why South African hip-hop artist Cassper Nyovest used to call himself "Ubhuti Fill-Up" — "the brother that fills up". He has certainly earned that title. Most recently on Youth Day weekend, Nyovest hosted the SA's Most Wanted Youth Celebration Concert at Pretoria's Sun Arena in the Time Square casino complex. ‪It's official!!!! We sold out The Sun Arena Times Sqaure. Dreams come true!!!! Can't wait to get on stage!!! Thank you!!! We did it boys!! #SAsMostWantedYouthCelebration ‬ A post shared by  Refiloe Phoolo 🇿🇦 (@casspernyovest) on Jun 16, 2018 at 11:38am PDT  The venue — with the capacity for 8,500 seated or 10,000 standing — was sold out, according to Nyovest. So he casually filled up an 10,000-ticket venue without having to campaign or advertise as much as other artists would have had to. He is building a reputation as the only SA hip-hop artist capable of selling out big venues and filling stadiums. His first record-breaking concert at The Dome in Northgate, Randburg, imaginatively titled "Fill Up The Dome", drew 20,000 people in 2015.   He then set his sights on the 40,000 seater Orlando Stadium in 2016, and also filled the iconic stadium almost to capacity.   But his biggest and most iconic feat was on December 2 2017 — when he drew a huge crowd to the colossal FNB Stadium in Soweto; the biggest stadium in Africa, He did the unbelievable, attracting 68,000 people to his #FillUpFNB concert. Technically, he didn't fill the stadium to capacity, but he is indisputably the first South African hip-hop artist to draw such an enormous crowd to a concert. History was made!!! Soccer city stadium was filled!!! 68000 tickets sold!!! Thank you!!! I love you!!!! God is good all the time!!! #FillUpFnbStadium 📸 : @jabukiing A post shared by  Refiloe Phoolo 🇿🇦 (@casspernyovest) on Dec 2, 2017 at 3:53pm PST  But Nyovest has not stopped there. In June he announced the date for his next Fill Up concert. Moses Mabhida in Durban is the stadium he will attempt to fill, come December 1. Based on his track record, this ambitious young artist could well be about to fill up another stadium. Halala, Bhuti Fill-Up!   