First lady Melania Trump hasn't attended a public event for nearly a month, and now her spokeswoman has told ABC News Sunday that she won't be accompanying the president to the G7 meeting in Quebec — nor the planned North Korea summit in Singapore. No reason was given. But spokeswoman Stephanie Grisham also told CNN Sunday evening that the first lady is expected to attend a White House event Monday honoring Gold Star military families. The reception, however, will be barred to the press. Melania Trump was last seen May 10 greeting Americans released from detention in North Korea. Speculation about her long absence includes possible tensions in the Trump marriage or a medical issue. She checked into Walter Reed Medical Center for treatment of what the White House called a benign kidney condition May 14 and didn't leave until May 19. Donald Trump just spent the weekend at Camp David — without her. A tweet was posted on her Twitter account last week saying she was "feeling great" and "working hard" at the White House, but the writing style was so remarkably like her husband's (especially the backhanded slap at the media) that many discounted it. The first lady joined the president for his first G7 trip to Italy last year, where she joined the spouses of other G7 leaders at public events. Leaders from the U.S., Canada, France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Italy, Japan and the European Union are meeting Friday and Saturday for the G7 summit. The president then plans to travel to Singapore for a June 12 summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. Grisham told ABC News last Wednesday that the first lady was "doing really well." She's been "involved in several internal meetings with staff ... We've been going over initiatives and other long-term planning for events such as the congressional picnic and Fourth of July," Grisham said. This story was updated with new information that the first lady is expected to attend a White House reception Monday to honor God Star military families.