Khloé Kardashian reignited an age-old parenting debate when she posted a video of her daughter True, who appears to have had her ears pierced. The clip, posted to Instagram stories, showed the two-month-old with a butterfly filter on her face and small studs in her ears. Fans commented on Instagram, as well as taking to Twitter to express their opinions. A post shared by Chicago Stormi True (@chixstormixtrue) on Jun 27, 2018 at 11:21am PDT Some felt it was wrong for parents to get their baby's ears pierced when they are too young to make a decision themselves. However, there was also a healthy amount of support, with many arguing that whether or not to get a baby's ears pierced is a parent's decision, and no one should judge their choice. Kardashian is not the only celebrity parent to have sparked such a debate. Back in February 2016, Britain's Katie "Jordan" Price felt the need to speak out on "Loose Women" after receiving criticism for getting her then 18-month-old daughter Bunny's ears pierced. "I'm not going to sit here and justify myself, she looks really cute," the mum said. "Kieran's half-Spanish and it's their tradition. What can I say, she's had it done and she looks beautiful with it." In 2015, a U.K. petition calling for a ban on ear piercing for babies and toddlers reached 86,000 signatures. The campaign was started by Susan Ingram, a mother who wanted there to be a minimum legal age for ear piercing. No law was changed following the campaign. "Ear piercing is one of the most divisive parenting topics and guaranteed to give everyone the needle, whatever their views," Siobhan Freegard, founder of ChannelMum previously told HuffPost. "Opinions range from it being cute or a cultural issue with a party to celebrate, to it being akin to child abuse. As with all these things, the truth probably lies somewhere in the middle." If you are thinking of getting your child's ears pierced, here are a few things to take into account before making the decision. According to NHS Choices, piercing is a fairly safe procedure, as long as it's carried out by a licensed practitioner. However piercings do require aftercare, and to be kept clean, in order to avoid simple bacterial infections from progressing to blood poisoning or toxic shock syndrome in severe cases. NHS Choices advises to reduce the risk of your piercing becoming infected, good hygiene is important. Follow these steps: Always wash your and your child's hands and dry them thoroughly with a clean towel or kitchen roll before touching the area around the piercing. (This may be tricky with little ones). Gently clean the area around the piercing with a saline (salt water) solution twice a day, preferably after washing or bathing. Avoid fiddling with the area and don't turn the piercing (this is contrary to advice you may have been given when you got piercings years ago). If a crust develops over the piercing, don't remove it — it's the body's way of protecting the piercing. It's best to check with your school. Share this slide: