Love is complicated, delicious, hard to get; it makes us feel insecure and as if we're walking on air, all at the same time. And yet we still go ahead and take the plunge. Because who could say no to love? If you're feeling a little jaded about dating, marriage, and relationships, here are eight shows that you'll totally be able to relate to. 1. Insecure   Watch now » 2. The Ring Thing   Sarah pops the question to her girlfriend Kristen. What happens after that reveals a dramatic doccie-style story delving into the fragility of relationships (particularly when it's between two women). Watch now » 3. It's Complicated   If it's about love, it will get complicated, really complicated. This entertaining homebrewed series explores life and love relationships among a tightly-knit group of seven friends – some more involved than they should be! Watch now » 4. Serena   What would you do if you found out your husband had a child with another woman? Serena, played by a mesmerising Jennifer Lawrence, shows her husband (played by Bradley Cooper) just how dangerous she can be when she is scorned. Watch now » 5. The Affair   It is said that "most affairs begin when a husband or wife makes a new friend, and then an apparently harmless intimacy is born". In the case of this dramatic series, the insatiable intimacy is met with a thrilling murder mystery. Watch now » 6. Hear Me Move   This energetic, award-winning romance and dance movie stars one of the most enthralling actors and actresses to come out of South Africa. Prepare to be moved, on different levels. Watch now » 7. Remember Me   In this touching romantic drama, new lovers Tyler and Ally experience romance while their fragile family relationships threaten to rip them apart. Watch now » 8. Hard To Get   Township charmer boy TK falls in love with an enigmatic bad girl called Skiets and she shows him flames! This local gritty romance (set in hardcore Joburg) is full of action, mystery, and drama! Watch now »  Binge on all of these shows on Showmax. Pro tip: Sign up for the 14-day free trial and watch all of these for free! 