A man of the match performance, 300 Test-wicket haul and career-best figures that include his first ever nine-for (9/110) against the Aussies in his penultimate Test match could only be described by Protea Morne Morkel as the highlight of his life.   Walking tall at 1.96 metres and running the show against Australia with his size 13 boots, Morkel became only the fifth South African to reach 300 Test wickets, a feat that took him 85 Tests to do and fired the Proteas to a 322-run win in the third Test against Australia. The remarkable achievement by Morkel certainly makes his final Test match against Australia on Friday a bittersweet moment for South African cricket fans as the fast bowler bows out of Test cricket. The Sandpaper Gate Scandal may have overshadowed the third Test between the Proteas and the Aussies, but Morkel was undoubtedly the man of the moment as he joined a prestigious league of men in the 300 club.   Shaun Pollock (421), Dale Steyn (419), Makhaya Ntini (390), Allan Donald (330) and Morkel (300) are now the only players in SA in this club. In a Test career spanning more than 12 years, the lanky bowler has terrorised batsmen with his fast bowling and will go down as a cult hero in SA cricket.  His farewell Test game in SA colours is bound to be an emotional one. The Proteas will want to wrap up the series against Australia and in doing so, make it a fitting send-off for one of SA's finest and most loyal players. Couldn't be more happy for this man! Great achievement bud, I just wish I was on the field to celebrate it with you. #300 club
Still a big few days to go, but tonight it's all about this man 👌🏼🏏 @mornemorkel65 pic.twitter.com/JYSh0YcaUa  The best thing about this Test match is that Morne Morkel has finished with five wickets to take his match haul to nine. He has never taken a nine-for in a Test match before. Such a pity he is saying goodbye to the game. #SAvAUS  One legend @DaleSteyn62 here in his hometown showing his support to another legend @mornemorkel65 in his last appearance in capetown.watta sight seeing dale wearing morne's no. pic.twitter.com/FfeliGPYSM  Such a shame this series is tarnished in controversy .. Tremendous players on show and a great man @mornemorkel65 playing his last Test at Newlands .. #SAvAUS  So outrageously happy for Morne Morkel.

300 wickets. Almost the same number as the size of his feet.  Congrats @mornemorkel65. Fantastic effort and well deserved. I know how hard you've worked behind the scenes. #300club  Congrats to the Proteas for winning the third #SAvAUS test and to Morne Morkel for a great 5-wicket haul. What a way to say goodbye to Newlands!  Sport very often doesn't provide the fairytale ending but thankfully on this occasion she did!! @mornemorkel65 deserved this day more than most and that needs to be remembered above all the other ongoings. #mothercricket you did good!! 