South Africa fast bowler Kagiso Rabada will make his appeal against a two-match suspension on Monday, as he fights to play in the rest of the Test series against Australia. Rabada will be represented at his appeal by high-profile advocate Dali Mpofu, EWN reported on Friday. If the #ICC ban #Rabada I think it would be a sad day for #Cricket as I think the Aussie Capt @Steve Smith made a meal of the slight brush @KagisoRabada25 he should have fallen over it would have looked better !!!  Rabada was found guilty of "inappropriate and deliberate physical contact with a player" after brushing shoulders with Steve Smith after he dismissed the Australia captain in the first innings of South Africa's six-wicket win in the second Test in Port Elizabeth.   Rabada was given three demerit points by International Cricket Council (ICC) match referee Jeff Crowe, taking him past the tally of eight that triggers an automatic two-match suspension. READ: Kagiso Rabada Seals Test for Proteas; Wins Instant Vacation New Zealander Michael Heron has been appointed as the judicial commissioner for the appeal hearing, which will be held via video conference on Monday, the ICC said in a statement. Heron will then have 48 hours to arrive at a decision. READ: Rabada: Turning Aussies Into Crybabies In Just 11 Wickets The third test starts on Thursday in Cape Town. The four-match series is tied at 1-1. Although there was contact made with Smith, Rabada has maintained it was accidental. He was the fifth player to be sanctioned by the ICC in a tempestuous Test series so far. The others were Australia's David Warner, Nathan Lyon and Mitchell Marsh, and South Africa's Quinton de Kock. JUST IN:
Cricket South Africa have confirmed Dali Mpofu will represent Kagiso Rabada as the No 1 Ranked Test player appeals his 2 match ban. #Rabada #Cricket #SAvAUS pic.twitter.com/XL1WcaBWLy  Fans around the world are split between those who think Rabada committed an infringement and must pay the price, and those adamant that Smith engineered the contact and then exaggerated it deliberately to get Rabada suspended. Twitter, as always, saw both sides well represented: #SteveSmith was very focused on NOT avoiding any contact, even pressed his shoulder out to ensure contact. Part of the innocent 😇 Ausie way of provoking.  Riddle me this: KG and Steve Smith were two cars facing each on a one lane street. Why is it that only KG gets charged? Shouldn't both cars swerve out the way to avoid contact? #SAvAUS #Rabada  What was #Rabada thinking? Man could've broken a shoulder blade or something! I hope the Aussie player is out of danger now & he's recuperating at home with his loving family. Thoughts & prayers at this time. pic.twitter.com/rsbOFI97MD  READ: Dali Mpofu To Represent Rabada In Test Match Ban Appeal Not the best track record... Probably had it coming did our #Rabada - regardless of how inconsistent the @ICC Umpires & Match Referees can be... These things though are ALWAYS so subjective - so also not an exact science for @ICC ! #SAvsAUS Rabada pic.twitter.com/Lr2Ou7pNZh  In complete solidarity with #Rabada. Jeff Crowe is a white supremacist. Cannot quite stomach a black cricketers making his white cousins dance. As much as there is to celebrate how brilliantly #Rabada @KagisoRabada25 has bowled in this #SAvsAUS Test match - he seriously now needs to look at how he's operating as @OfficialCSA simply cannot afford to have him missing games...! 🤔🏏 https://t.co/BkRR9JXIYt  Many fans feel Rabada is being unfairly singled out, whereas other fast bowlers get aways with being just as aggressive as he is: #SAvsAUS #Rabada

"I think we're just going too far on the sensitive side. Players have to show passion. Otherwise you could just put a bowling machine and a robot to bat"

Do you agree with Faf du Plessis? https://t.co/2G8fignsAO pic.twitter.com/e3Y6H4GBf8 The entire Australian team, the entire English squad, ponting, Kohli, broad and many others are all arrogant and sometimes cross the line. All of which go further than rabada.. But then again they aren't black #icc #rabada  I have seen countless bowlers have more hostile contact with the opposition than @KagisoRabada25 , and not even face an on-screen replay let alone a suspension. This decision is an absolute disgrace for the sport and says more about the @ICC than it does #Rabada. #AUSvsSA READ: 5 Things That Make Kagiso Rabada A National Treasure   