National Prosecuting Authority boss Shaun Abrahams has tasked the KwaZulu-Natal director of public prosecutions (DPP) with the task of facilitating the necessary processes to charge former president Jacob Zuma in court. That responsibility now falls on the shoulders of Moipone Noko, a controversial figure who has previously been accused of shielding one of Zuma's wives, one of his sons, his associates and his political allies from prosecution. READ: The Zuma Charges -- This Is How It All Comes Together. Noko may also be tasked with leading the prosecution team against Zuma.  In a landmark decision on Friday, Abrahams announced that Zuma's representations explaining why he should not be prosecuted were unsuccessful. Zuma will now be prosecuted on 18 charges and 783 counts of fraud, corruption, racketeering and money laundering relating to his alleged involvement in the arms deal – almost 13 years to the day that the same charges were originally brought against him. But Noko has a cloud hanging over her credibility in this matter. Her history at the NPA is tainted with scandal:  If Zuma, or any of his allies, do not take Abrahams to court, and if the Noko's process runs smoothly, it is expected that Zuma will be summoned to court for his first appearance. Law expert James Grant explained the process. Grant said the question of an arrest relates to securing a suspect's attendance in court. "If there is no reason to suspect that a person will not come to court, he or she can be summoned instead of arrested. But this does not often happen in most criminal cases. If Zuma is arrested, he has to attend a bail hearing. If he is summoned, he will appear in court, where the charges will be explained to him, and he will say whether he pleads guilty or not. The whole process will start then," Grant said. "Whether he will be arrested or summoned depends largely on whether the police [decide to] play for the media. But it is unlikely he will be arrested. If the court suspects he is a flight risk, then the procedure may also change." 