From a recent collaboration with the leading law firm ENS to deliver seminars on the use of social media in a compliant manner in the financial services industry, here's a quick synopsis of the main legal takeaway points and the benefits of social media policies. Freedom is one of the most important pillars of democracy and we all value our freedom of speech highly. So, do employers really have the right to control the way in which employees communicate on social media? The answer to this question is a simple and resounding YES because we are all brand ambassadors for the companies we work for. If, for instance, an employee makes racist statements on social media, the smear will extend to his/her employer – a risk no company can afford to take. It's good to remember too that there is no such thing as a closed social media group despite your privacy settings. Friends share, their friends share even more, and in no time a controversial statement from a supposedly closed group can be on half-a-million phones.   Even informed, mild-mannered folks can get angry sometimes, which, in the online realm, can very swiftly and spontaneously lead to defaming someone. Defamation is a published false statement that harms the reputation of a person and can result in the need for financial compensation. This can become your employer's responsibility if you made the statement during working hours and using the company's equipment, including your phone. In law, hate speech is that which insults a person by race, gender, ethnic or social origin, colour, sexual orientation, religion, belief, culture, language, HIV status, nationality or gender identity. A broad and all-encompassing definition if ever there was one. Hate speech is soon to be criminalised which means a conviction could end you up behind bars! Many people mistakenly believe that everything on the internet is in the public domain, including all images. This couldn't be further from the truth. A quick copy and paste from a news site onto your Facebook page could easily constitute theft. FAIS was one of the biggest topics of discussion in the seminar, for a number of reasons. Big data analytics are increasingly used in the financial industry for building predictive models for marketing (and other) purposes as it allows individualistic communication with users based on their previous search histories. However, this information can become personalised and could get you into trouble when used for marketing purposes, including cross-selling. Social media policies should form part of an employee's contract and exist to protect a company's brand and reputation and to manage the company's liability should things go wrong. Remember that an employee's social media activity can't be questioned if there's nothing to measure it by. A social media policy sets the standard. A social media policy should cover/include:   Social media policies aren't there to scare off employers. They're useful guidelines which allow all parties to mitigate potential risks while also making the most of the incredible marketing opportunities presented by social media. Remember that all leading brands (including financial brands) are social, digital and inclusive! If you're not on social media you run the risk of being seen as out of touch... or out of business! More and more people search for information directly from social media platforms, rather than using search engines like Google and Bing. This piece originally featured in FINCOMMUNICATIONS and can be viewed here. It has been edited for Huffpost.