Kids may say the darndest things, but parents tweet about them in the funniest ways. So each week, we round up the most hilarious 280-character quips from moms and dads to spread the joy. Scroll down to read the latest batch and follow @HuffPostParents on Twitter for more! 2yo referred to her coat pockets as "snack holes" and this is what I shall forever call them My kid's favorite thing to dip in ketchup is her sleeve. I'm writing down my child's story in case I ever need to filibuster a meeting. Toddler: *babbling nonsense*

Me: Ok, got it!

Narrator: But she did not "got it" And this would make the toddler very angry. Really long movies basically become a miniseries when you're a parent.

"Hey maybe we'll finish it by Tuesday." In possibly concerning news, my pre-schooler keeps telling me to say goodbye to the sun. [walking into the Parent Club meeting]
These are my emotional support tacos! I can't guarantee much about parenthood, except that you'll find things hidden in your shoes. Mother buffer: the other mom you bring on a first playdate, just in case the new one is a dud. My children are very helpful. For example, when I ask them to do something, they suggest a different child that could do it instead. My husband bought our 3y.o. a police light, complete with siren, to attach to his bike, so I guess we're going to need couple's counseling now. 3-year-old: I'm a big sister.

Me: Yup.

3: And a little sister.

Me: That's right.

3: And a lizard monster.

Me: Yes. Definitely that. "I'M COLD!" yells the teen who is wearing shorts & a tshirt in 40 degree weather & ignored his mother when she said to dress warmer. I discovered my toddler can moisturize her entire body with a single french fry. How was your lunch? Did you know that 2 cups of Rice Krispies can cover an area of over 5 feet? Did you also know that the Krispies can be spilled & crushed in the time it takes an adult woman to pee?

I do. Now. The average child uses 16,000 feet of scotch tape in a day. The La Brea Tar Pits but it's my kitchen floor after I let the kids pour their own pancake syrup. [at bus stop]

ME: you brush your teeth bud?

SON: UMMMM NO BUT I DID LAST NIGHT

ME:

SON: AT LEAST I THINK I DID

ME:

SON: YEAH. I DID.

ME: *rubs temples slowly* Congratulations on the birth of your son, and your bathroom smelling like urine for the rest of your life. Share this slide: