Provincial conveners in the EFF are gearing up for a political showdown come the 2019 national elections, saying they are hopeful of increased voter support across the board. The red berets have raked up extraordinary numbers in the polls for a party conceived in 2013. It only had a year to prepare for the national elections in 2014 and two more thereafter to rally support in the local government arena. After South Africa went to the polls in 2014, the EFF became the second largest opposition party behind the DA, its supporters affording the party 25 seats in parliament. This compared to other parties who have spent a considerably longer time in South Africa's political landscape - like the United Democratic Movement and the Congress of the People - who hold four and three seats respectively.   The EFF was most influential in Gauteng (10.26%), Limpopo (10.27%), and the North-West (12.53%). It failed to gain enough traction in the Western Cape and KwaZulu-Natal, provinces which represent the stronghold of the DA and ANC respectively. Overall, the EFF claimed 6.35% of the total national vote. Now, with five years under its belt, the party has its eyes fixed on 2019. EFF provincial coordinator in Eastern Cape Yazini Tetyana told HuffPost said the party's impact is felt "on the ground" in key metropolitan municipalities like Nelson Mandela Bay (NMB). READ: ANC/EFF In NMB: Principled Coalition, Or Unholy Alliance? "We have had an impact on the development of various communities. We called for the release of housing beneficiaries in NMB so that in each and every ward, people can see who has been approved. We stood for the community in an area called Ramaphosa and raised a motion against the eviction of its people," Tetyana said. "We fought for hawkers in NMB. And this is only since 2016. But we are dealing with people who don't want to listen to us so we cannot have the total change we want. We have submitted motions on budget demands that we expect the municipality to deliver on, but it falls on deaf ears." He said the EFF in the province is building its structures in preparation for the 2019 election. "We have the intention for the EFF to be felt across all wards in the Eastern Cape. Our intention is that no party gets the majority here," he said. The EFF acquired 8.31 percent of the total vote in the 2016 local government election. Aside from the Western Cape, Eastern Cape and KZN, the party came close to, and in some cases exceeded, the 10 percent mark for total support in each province.   Acting chairperson of the EFF in Gauteng Mandisa Mashego said the party has been reading the levels of frustration with leadership in various municipalities throughout many of its constituencies. "The majority of our constituencies are mainly impacted by local government issues and have not had any representation before us. We are represented in in all municipalities in Gauteng. We are punching above our weight but we see a direct benefit in service delivery in our communities," Mashego said. READ: ANC Isn't Leading, It's Following The EFF, Says Malema. "We fought for the Durban Roodepoort Deep primary school in an informal settlement for example. There is still a lot to be done but we are seeing results. In provincial legislature, the ANC uses its majority for what they want. Despite that, we have been successful. We are contesting the DA very robustly." Mashego said there are signs that the EFF will grow in Gauteng's metros. "Our own party membership in the province has grown. We have representation in almost every voting district in the province," she said. 