At last a group of South African medical academics has looked at South African women's vaginas and published their findings in a prestigious journal, Climacteric (2017 Vol 20, NO.1, 49-54). More specifically, these academics – all highly respected gynaecologists – chose to study postmenopausal women's atrophied vaginas. These are vaginas that burn, irritate, are dry because they lack lubrication, experience discomfort and pain with penetration, and are prone to urinary urgency, leaking and infections. This is directly due to reduced oestrogen levels in ageing women. Uniquely, the study (called the CLOSER survey: Clarifying vaginal atrophy's impact On Sex and Relationships) is part of a global study, and included male partners of menopausal women. They wanted to know what the impact is of postmenopausal atrophy on South African women and their male partners. Considering that South Africa is a patriarchal society – one in which heterosexual "sex" means penetration, penis into a vagina, one round is for sissies, and tightness the desired designer vagina – one would imagine that there would be a lot of awareness of painful vaginas. Alas, despite 50 percent of women having atrophied vaginas, 29 percent were uncomfortable raising the subject with their partners, 27 percent felt their partners would no longer be attracted to them if they discussed the topic, and 24 percent believed that this dialogue would ruin intimacy. Let's have this dialogue right now. As a man: As a menopausal woman with an atrophied vagina (and unless treated, you do have one of these vaginas): Results of the study showed that in 40 percent of women, symptoms of vaginal discomfort were untreated. As expected, black South African women fare less well than white SA women: 87 percent of white women have tried some form of treatment, compared to 54 percent of black women. Women used lubricating gels, creams mineral/vitamin supplements, hormone therapy, vaginal tablets or vaginal creams, and reported several benefits. Personally I am never without Vagifem, a Vaginal tablet directly and easily inserted into the vagina. I'm not alone. The CLOSER respondents reported the many benefits of using vaginal oestrogen therapy, benefits to their sexual relationships. These include: Surely you want some of that? I am of the strong opinion that painful sex must be averted at all costs. The CLOSER study proves that atrophied vaginas are an emotional and sexual health hazard. They ruin relationships. Perhaps we talk less about atrophied vaginas and menopause because we're stuck in the misguided belief that older people are not sexual. Get over your ageism! Then pop into your local pharmacy where you can pick up your vaginal tablet, over the counter, knowing that it is safe and effective. Prepare yourself for pounding pleasure!