Maxhosa by South African designer Laduma Ngxokolo left the fashion lovers in awe at day three of AFI Cape Town fashion week. The line celebrates various facets of Ngxokolo's Xhosa heritage and upbringing in Nelson Mandela Bay. Xhosa beadwork inspired the first designs created by Ngxokolo, and has since come to inform his whole label, which is stocked in stores around the world. The new line was part of the I am Africa theme for fashion week, where all the top designers from the continent to celebrate Africa and the fashion industry. We would like to extend a big shout out to MaXhosa by Laduma for the amazing show they put on last night. #AFICTFW pic.twitter.com/su3279sFF3  Couldn't make it to fashion week? Not to worry, we have all the highlights: South African favorite Laduma Ngxokolo brought the heat with his latest offering. Celebrating the Xhosa heritage one garment at a time #aficptfw A post shared by  HuffPost SA (@huffpostsa) on Mar 23, 2018 at 10:57pm PDT  South African favorite Laduma Ngxokolo brought the heat with his latest offering. Celebrating the Xhosa heritage one garment at a time #aficptfw A post shared by  HuffPost SA (@huffpostsa) on Mar 23, 2018 at 10:55pm PDT  South African favorite Laduma Ngxokolo brought the heat with his latest offering. Celebrating the Xhosa heritage one garment at a time #aficptfw A post shared by  HuffPost SA (@huffpostsa) on Mar 23, 2018 at 10:54pm PDT  South African favorite Laduma Ngxokolo brought the heat with his latest offering. Celebrating the Xhosa heritage one garment at a time #aficptfw A post shared by  HuffPost SA (@huffpostsa) on Mar 23, 2018 at 10:59pm PDT  A hearty congratulations! South African favorite Laduma Ngxokolo brought the heat with his latest offering. Celebrating the Xhosa heritage one garment at a time #aficptfw A post shared by  HuffPost SA (@huffpostsa) on Mar 23, 2018 at 11:01pm PDT  Moroccan designer, Salima Abdel-Wahab gave audiences a taste of the moroccan culture by showcasing statement pieces. The show took audiences on an indigenous journey with a touch of high fashion. Here are our favourites: Day three of #afictfw was incredible! Designer Salima Adbel-Wahab came through with her Moroccan inspired threads A post shared by  HuffPost SA (@huffpostsa) on Mar 23, 2018 at 10:31pm PDT  Day three of #afictfw was incredible! Designer Salima Adbel-Wahab came through with her Moroccan inspired threads l. A post shared by  HuffPost SA (@huffpostsa) on Mar 23, 2018 at 10:30pm PDT We love this designer! Day three of #afictfw was incredible! Designer Salima Adbel-Wahab came through with her Moroccan inspired threads A post shared by  HuffPost SA (@huffpostsa) on Mar 23, 2018 at 10:33pm PDT South African designer, Leigh Schubert came with her bright, ready-to-wear athleisure: SA designer Leigh Schubert brought her funky bright designs. The energy was awesome. #afictfw A post shared by  HuffPost SA (@huffpostsa) on Mar 23, 2018 at 10:38pm PDT  SA designer Leigh Schubert brought her funky bright designs. The energy was awesome. #afictfw A post shared by  HuffPost SA (@huffpostsa) on Mar 23, 2018 at 10:37pm PDT Day four of fashion week will feature Nicholas Coutts, Adele Dejak and Khosi Nkosi.