Lynda Carter has spoken about her experiences of sexual misconduct on the set of "Wonder Woman". In the late 1970s, Carter played the titular superhero in the hit TV show and has now made the allegations in an interview with The Daily Beast. Speaking candidly for the first time, she said that a crew member was fired after "drilling a hole in her dressing room wall", adding that she experienced other forms of sexual harassment too. Of the dressing room incident, she explained: "They caught him, fired him, and drummed him out of the business." Although she didn't give further details, Carter also revealed sexual misconduct from someone else during her "Wonder Woman" days, which she was inspired to come forward about in the wake of the #MeToo movement. She said: "I can't add anything to it. I wish I could. But there's nothing legally I could add to it, because I looked into it. I'm just another face in the crowd. "I wish I could, and if I could I would. And I would talk about it. But it ends up being about me, and not about the people who can talk about it. "I don't want it to be about me, it's not about me. It's about him being a scumbag. So legally I can't do anything. If I could I would." On her decision to keep quiet all these years, Carter explained: "Who are you going to tell, your agent? Who's going to believe you? No one's going to believe you. And when you did push back by saying, 'Are you kidding me?' they would say, 'Yes, yes'. "But it was everywhere. You'd see girls being shaken in acting classes. And the #MeToo movement is happening not just with actresses but maids and caregivers – everywhere. "I asked my husband if he was surprised by all the #MeToo stories. 'Yeah, I'm surprised,' he said. Ask any woman, they're not surprised. It's been going on for years. It's not news to [women], but it is news to [men]. We've been trying to tell you. We've been trying to tell you for a long time, and you haven't listened." She continued: "It took powerful women who are famous to yell 'Fire' in a crowded theatre full of executives that there was one guy [Harvey Weinstein]. He was going down anyway, nobody liked him, he was a bully to everyone. Someone had the courage to take him to task, and then someone else spoke up. "There is a difference between a guy hitting on you, which everybody has, and a guy assaulting you. If someone is hitting on you aggressively, you go, 'Back off' and he does. But then there is the guy who locks you in a room, or who corners you. "There is a huge difference when you can't speak up, or you get blackballed if you say anything. The repercussion of all this has been #MeToo." Decades on from her iconic performance as Wonder Woman, Carter recently landed a recurring role in a new female-centric superhero franchise, playing President Olivia Marsdin in "Supergirl". Share this slide: