Tributes for famed theoretical physicist, cosmologist and best-selling author Stephen Hawking filled social media sites overnight. Hawking died on Wednesday at the age of 76. Scientists, media personalities, celebrities and many of the millions around the world who were influenced by his work and inspired by his life shared their thoughts: His passing has left an intellectual vacuum in his wake. But it's not empty. Think of it as a kind of vacuum energy permeating the fabric of spacetime that defies measure. Stephen Hawking, RIP 1942-2018. pic.twitter.com/nAanMySqkt Sad to hear about Stephen Hawking. What a remarkable life. His contributions to science will be used as long as there are scientists, and there are many more scientists because of him. He spoke about the value and fragility of human life and civilisation and greatly enhanced both Our world has lost a shining light. Stephen Hawking defied expectation. Blessed with a brilliant mind and uncommon grace, he opened so many minds to the wonders of our universe. Courageous and unbowed by adversity, he believed deeply in the power reason. May he rest in peace. The great Stephen Hawking has passed on. He gave the world so much more than a brief history of time. R. I. P. Cosmic Super
star. pic.twitter.com/neM8PYwBq7 Genius is so fine and rare. Goodbye Professor Hawking. You inspired and taught us all. pic.twitter.com/9Drdnv2eEe It had to happen, eventually. We were lucky to have him for so long, and I was lucky to be able to work with him. A truly fabulous human being. Stephen Hawking. Funny, perverse, and, of course, brilliant. "Look up at the stars and not down at your feet. Try to make sense of what you see, and wonder about what makes the universe exist. Be curious." -- Stephen Hawking pic.twitter.com/Q3nmjWPVL0 Given just a few years to live after being diagnosed with ALS at age 21, Stephen Hawking by far outlived that, reaching the age of 76. He made some of the greatest contributions to the world of physics. His work will continue to inspire us all. RIP Stephen Hawking. Remembering Stephen Hawking, a renowned physicist and ambassador of science. His theories unlocked a universe of possibilities that we & the world are exploring. May you keep flying like superman in microgravity, as you said to astronauts on @Space_Station in 2014 pic.twitter.com/FeR4fd2zZ5 A star just went out in the cosmos. We have lost an amazing human being. Stephen Hawking fought and tamed the cosmos bravely for 76 years and taught us all something importantabout what it truly means to celebrate about being human. I will miss him. "OH, DR. HAWKING, WE HAD SUCH A BEAUTIFUL DREAM" - REST IN PEACE AND THANK YOU https://t.co/R0tDKyVImf via @YouTube R.I.P. Stephen Hawking. Among his many profound contributions to this world was this simple sentiment: "It would not be much of a universe if it wasn't home to the people you love." RIP Stephen Hawking. Genuinely very sad to hear that. If you haven't, read A Brief History of Time. It'll make the world feel more amazing and beautiful and strange. It'll also make you feel smart and stupid all at once. A loss for all humanity. #RIP Stephen Hawking. https://t.co/0qLMWYt7N8 "Silent face, the marble index of a mind forever voyaging through strange seas of thought, alone." Wordsworth was writing of Newton, but he might have been foreseeing the silent face of Newton's great successor as Lucasian Professor. pic.twitter.com/VZIP0xdQmG The world has lost a beautiful mind and a brilliant scientist. RIP Stephen Hawking RIP Stephen Hawking. Thank you for showing the universe that nothing keeps a great mind down. pic.twitter.com/Ffm6QAYBou Oh no. Rest in peace. "We are just an advanced breed of monkeys on a minor planet of a very average star. But we can understand the Universe. That makes us something very special." - Stephen Hawking HT @johnquackenbush "Look up at the stars and not down at your feet. Try to make sense of what you see and wonder about what makes the universe exist. Be curious" RIP Stephen Hawking Stephen Hawking came to Caltech periodically for work & usually gave a public talk where people queued up all day to see him. A few visual memories of a 2013 appearance with Kip Thorne. pic.twitter.com/KLGuKg2nZf Farewell Stephen Hawking. A great man. Honored to have spent time with him. RIP. RIP Stephen Hawking, who was of course best known for playing a holodeck version of himself on Star Trek: TNG pic.twitter.com/RrZDJTtp3m I rarely cry at the death of people I don't know personally, but the announcement of the passing of Stephen Hawking just brought tears to my eyes. What a beautiful genius this earth has lost. Thank you Stephen Hawking
For showing us your mind
For showing us the universe
We'll never forget you. pic.twitter.com/hMWdCKL9Dt Stephen Hawking...

A testament that disability is not "inability" and that people with disabilities can achieve anything they set their minds to. We were on earth at the same time as Stephen Hawking.

That's kind of a miraculous thing.

We breathed the same air as the man who demystified the stars. "We are just an advanced breed of monkeys on a minor planet of a very average star. But we can understand the Universe. That makes us something very special." If understanding the Universe makes us special, then Dr. Stephen Hawking was truly extraordinary. May he rest in peace. pic.twitter.com/aOn5DMGFjn Goodbye, Stephen Hawking 😔 pic.twitter.com/PWcRlAPLyN Share this slide: