Lawyer and former arms-deal insider Ajay Sooklal – likely to present himself as a state witness in the looming Jacob Zuma trial – may turn out to be one of the most painful thorns in the former president's side. Having already made public evidence implicating Zuma in the notorious 1999 arms deal, Sooklal's testimony would likely be key to the state's case against the sullied leader, given his close proximity to Zuma and other individuals implicated in the arms deal graft. READ: There Was An Illegal 'Common Purpose' Between Zuma, Shaik And Thales, Says NPA Though Sooklal's name was not included on the original list of state witnesses widely circulated at the end of March, the lead investigator of the team pursuing the case against Zuma, Colonel Johan du Plooy, approached the lawyer last week in hopes he'd avail himself as a witness and make a sworn statement, City Press reported on Sunday. Two NGOs had also approached Sooklal with the same request, Du Plooy told the publication.  A former representative of French arms manufacturer Thales – which in 1997 won a R2.6-billion stake in the R60-billion arms acquisition programme – Sooklal gained public prominence four years ago following revelations that he helped Thales arranged clothes, accommodation and legal fees for Zuma when he faced prosecution relating to the arms deal. Sooklal's ostensibly damning allegations became public information during the Seriti Commission – the official inquiry in 2014 tasked with investigating arms deal crimes (now widely dismissed as a "whitewash" by activists and whistle-blowers). The commission found zero evidence of corruption and carried a R137-million price tag, according to City Press. Sooklal later detailed, in a high court affidavit last year, how Zuma appealed for his silence pertaining to the allegations. READ: Decoding Zuma: Charismatic 'Victim Of A Political Agenda' Subsequently appearing as "witness X" at the civil society-led People's Tribunal on Economic Crime in February, Sooklal presented additional allegations of arms deal graft in his testimony before a panel led by former Constitutional Court justice Zac Yacoob. The allegations relate broadly to the involvement of Thales (formerly Thompson-CSF), an alleged apartheid sanctions-buster and co-defendant in the Zuma trial, and its links to Zuma while he was still deputy state president.   These were the allegations Sooklal put forward during the tribunal, some of which were already in the public domain: During the tribunal, a picture of the previously unseen Alain Thetard – who allegedly offered the bribe using the secret code "Eiffel Tower" – was put on display.  Zuma and a representative of Thales, group legal head Christine Guerrier, appeared in the high court in Durban on Friday. City Press on Sunday revealed it had learnt that Thales, prior to the appearance, wrote to KwaZulu-Natal director of public prosecutions Moipone Noko to ask that charges against the company be withdrawn. They asked her to allow the company to justify the request, the report said.

Zuma will appear in court next on June 8 following a postponement on Friday. He will launch his review application on May 15.