UPDATE 3.00PM President Cyril Ramaphosa has just arrived to convene an urgent meeting with ANC leaders in Mahikeng, where protests against North West premier Supra Mahumapelo have brought the town to a standstill. President Cyril Ramaphosa's motorcade arrives at the Heritage House for the ANC meeting in Mahikeng. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/QVaIKWns5x  President Cyril Ramaphosa has officially arrived for the ANC meeting in Mahikeng. @TeamNews24  ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa arrives as Heritage House to discuss #MahikengProtests. pic.twitter.com/xVHiPW6WWJ  1.30PM David Mabuza, Malusi Gigaba, Bheki Cele, Jessie Duarte were among the senior ANC members set to meet with President Cyril Ramaphosa in Mahikeng, as violent protests demanding the removal of North West premier Supra Mahumapelo show no signs of slowing down. #MahikengProtests We are about to be addressed by ANC NEC member Obed Bapela. Doesn't look like the meeting has started. Many leaders standing outside. CM pic.twitter.com/uEETWGjXxK  We have just been told. The presidential motorcade that arrived was David Mabuza and Not President Cyril Ramaphosa. But we are told the president has arrived in #MahikengProtests  Obed Bapela said the meeting was yet to start, as the president had not arrived yet. EWN also reported that Mahumapelo had arrived, but the meeting could not get started until the president joined them. #MahikengProtests We are about to be addressed by ANC NEC member Obed Bapela. Doesn't look like the meeting has started. Many leaders standing outside. CM pic.twitter.com/uEETWGjXxK  EARLIER Violence in Mahikeng resulted in Minister of Police Bheki Cele addressing the people of Mmabatho on Friday morning, and asking to hear their grievances. President Cyril Ramaphosa is also in Mahikeng trying to calm tensions #MahikengProtests - Police Minister Bheki Cele has just arrived. Residents are speaking to him. Here is what he has said so far. Courtesy #DStv403 pic.twitter.com/xUYse4PI3r  "I am here to listen," said Cele to residents int he suburb of Danville, trying to find out what had caused the outrage. Danville residents insisted, "We are not part and parcel of the people who are protesting," – but complained about excessive police abuse during protests. Cele says he will sort those issues out, as residents singled out specific police officers and described how they had allegedly mistreated citizens. The rubber bullet marks on some of the protesters in Mahikeng. #MahikengUnrests @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/8zWgdEWgI8  Protesters claim a mentally ill man was shot by cops. He was pushed in a wheelbarrow. #MahikengUnrests @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/FIf7FoikWu  Allegations of private mayoral bodyguards shooting the vulnerable – the elderly and disabled – also surfaced, and claims that racist names like "Boesman" ["Bushman"; a derogatory reference to Khoisan people] were being used to insult residents. Cele promised to return in two weeks to probe the allegations – and police handling of the crisis in general. Bheki Cele promises to come back to #Mahikeng in 2 weeks pic.twitter.com/kFeXR7sjI6  #MahikengProtests - This man tells Bheki Cele that provincial government has failed them. They want National government to save them. Now on #eNCA. pic.twitter.com/jywnorFBzo  Protesters have started to gather in numbers close to the warehouse that was looted. #Mahikeng (@iavanpijoos) pic.twitter.com/uVv5ec7L62  #Mahikeng CBD trashed and pretty much a ghost town. @eNCA #MahikengProtest pic.twitter.com/Sv4E5E7epy President Ramaphosa curtailed his trip to London to return on Thursday night, and is scheduled to speak to the people of Mahikeng at around 12 noon.  