Kids may say the darndest things, but parents tweet about them in the funniest ways. So each week, we round up the most hilarious 280-character quips from moms and dads to spread the joy. Scroll down to read the latest batch and follow @HuffPostParents on Twitter for more! My greatest accomplishment as a parent has been convincing my kids that Chuck E. Cheese is only open once a year. Become a parent to discover how angrily you can serve someone crackers. Dentist: Looks like you have been grinding your teeth. Do you know the reason why? Stress? Lack of sleep?Me: I have four. Would you like to see their school pictures? 5 cried when the restaurant didn’t bring her enough bacon and this is the first time her emotional outburst has made sense. Me: What did you do at school today?5-year-old: Learned about dragons.Me: Your class learned about dragons?5: I learned about dragons. I don't know what everybody else was doing. Just overheard my toddler say “uh-oh” from the other room, which either means I need to retrieve a toy from behind the couch or we need to change our identities and move out of state again. A mother's work is never done. Unless she proclaims loudly that she is "done with this shit", in which case you should probably give her at least an hour. Husband just fixed the toilet, and my 5yo couldn’t remember the word “plumber” so he called him a “toilet master” and let’s be honest, broken toilet or not, that’s the perfect nickname for him. Have kids so you can forever be trapped in the never-ending cycle of "finally getting over being sick" and "just starting to get sick again." What’s it like to have a bunch of kids who “borrow” your stuff?I just filled out a permission slip with a Crayola marker. 6y.o: “What’s this?”Me: “A baked potato.”6: “You know what would be better? If this potato was frenched and fried.” My son asked me how you would know if the inside of your nose smelled funny and it’s kept me awake for 4 days Becoming a parent has taught me that I’m extremely sensitive to noise and smells. And messes. Also, repeating myself. And when my kids grab new cups every time they want a sip of water. Why is this necessary??? But other than that, only these 256 other things bother me. My 8yo was all like, "Sorry Dad, I forgot my homework," and ran outside to play."Sorry son," I replied, and plopped down the homework a mom screenshot from his classmate's homework, sent to me and I printed out. "Sucks to be you growing up in 2018." Me then: You kids have to stop leaving your toys everywhere!Me now: Awww the dogs left their toys everywhere, they’re so cute. “It feels weird to smile in the mornings.” — My 11-year-old transitioning into adulthood. Parents, when you go to the bathroom don’t forget to lock the door so your kids can show you what it would be like if zombies were trying to break down your door in an apocalypse. If you think you’re your own worst critic, have kids A recent study says to wash new clothes before you wear them bc they could contain fecal germs which is funny bc I have kids so pretty much everything around me already contains fecal germs. When you make a bomb ass dinner and your kids barely eat it pic.twitter.com/dpHnXIoosC Yes I know I forgot to pick up my kid from school but don’t worry my brain is good and fine, it still remembers all the lyrics to the Moulin Rouge soundtrack I haven’t listened to in 15 years Quiet down, children. JLo ft. Ja Rule songs are playing on the radio. Share this slide: