Stephanie Clifford, also known as Stormy Daniels, revealed a composite sketch Tuesday of the man she says threatened her in 2011 to stay silent about an alleged affair she had with President Donald Trump. “His face is burned in my memory,” Clifford told the hosts of ABC’s “The View” on Tuesday. “I was really rattled. It just never left me.” The adult film actress has alleged she had sex with Trump in July 2006, a few months after first lady Melania Trump gave birth to Trump’s youngest son, Barron. Trump has denied the affair occurred, according to the White House. Clifford, during an appearance on CBS’ “60 Minutes” last month, said a man approached her in a Las Vegas parking lot in 2011 and demanded she stay quiet about the alleged affair. “I was in a parking lot, going to a fitness class with my infant daughter,” Clifford said. “And a guy walked up on me and said to me, ‘Leave Trump alone. Forget the story.’ And then he leaned around and looked at my daughter and said, ‘That’s a beautiful little girl. It’d be a shame if something happened to her mom.’ And then he was gone.” The sketch, drawn by renowned forensic artist Lois Gibson, describes the man as “lean but fit,” standing between 5 foot 9 inches and 6 feet. Clifford’s lawyer, Michael Avenatti, is offering $100,000 to anyone who can identify the man who allegedly threatened her. Anyone with information is encouraged to email IDTheThug@gmail.com, Avenatti said Tuesday on “The View.” Clifford sold an interview about the alleged affair to a sister publication of tabloid In Touch for $15,000 in 2011. But the interview never ran and Clifford was never paid after Trump’s personal attorney, Michael Cohen, threatened legal action against the publication. Her story was brought back into the forefront in January after a Wall Street Journal investigation discovered Cohen made a $130,000 payment to Clifford in the weeks leading up to the 2016 presidential election. In exchange, Clifford signed a nondisclosure agreement intended to bar her from discussing the alleged affair. Trump threatened to sue Clifford for $20 million in March, claiming she has repeatedly violated the nondisclosure agreement by speaking publicly in recent months about the alleged affair. Avenatti has since argued the nondisclosure agreement was never valid since Trump never signed it. Clifford observed a court hearing in New York City on Monday regarding a criminal investigation against Cohen, whose office was raided by the FBI last week. Investigators reportedly seized documents related to Cohen’s 2016 payment to Clifford, as well a payment he negotiated for another woman who has alleged having an affair with Trump. Share this slide: