Deciding to spend your life with one person is a rather serious, perhaps even daunting, commitment. But if you and your spouse can find humor in the day to day, you’re much more likely to enjoy the ride. Below, 32 hilarious tweets about marriage that will make perfect sense if you’re a husband or wife. I hadn’t realised that marriage would make having a spare room quite such a necessity. Love is letting her charge her phone first.Marriage is buying a second charger. My wife and I have a rule whoever is driving controls the radio, unless I'm driving and then she controls the radio. What part of if I'm on a diet he's on a diet does my husband not understand? Oh your husband bought you a designer handbag? Mine ordered me my very own large pizza Marriage is just smiling and nodding after you've read the same sentence 12 times because they keep talking in 20 second intervals and OH MY GOD JUST SAY WHAT YOU WANT AND BE QUIET SO I CAN FINISH THIS 3 PARAGRAPH ARTICLE. The wife always knows when I've emptied the dishwasher because I leave the cabinet doors flung open like I just got a warrant to toss the house. My wife just replied to my email with “Unsubscribe.” My husband has texted me 12 times from the grocery store with questions. He's only made it to aisle 4. Pray for me. I know my wife is mad at me when the kids ask something and instead of "Ask your dad." she says "Go see what ROBERT thinks." I describe my husband’s style as “OMG! Are you going to wear that in public?” 90% of marriage is just loud cleaning. “Does this smell ok?” and “Guess when I last washed my hair?” are just two examples of fun games you can play to spice up your marriage. Me after date night with Hubs: Ugh, I’m going to change into something more comfortable *takes off going-out yoga pants, puts on staying-in yoga pants Husband: I emptied the toaster crumbs & cleaned the toaster.Me: Aw!!! I was going to do that today! WIFE: oh yeah baby, keep doing it just like thatME: *picking kids’ coats up off the floor and hanging them in the closet* My wife is getting rid of all the clutter. If you see the kids and me standing out by the street, it means we didn't make the cut this year. (100 miles from exit)Wife: You need to get in the right lane. There isn’t a self help book in the world that can prepare you for the disappointment you feel when a random package arrives from Amazon and you find out it’s just the golf balls your husband ordered. Being married is just wiping someone else's toothpaste spittle off the vanity mirror EVERYDAY. Husband “I thought you were dieting?”Me “I am”Husband “You just ate 6 Oreos”Me “Yes but I want to eat 12. See - Dieting” Share this slide: