One of President Donald Trump’s greatest adversaries appears to be the subject of Jim Carrey’s latest biting political portrait. The actor-turned-artist seemingly took aim at former FBI Director James Comey with the new picture he shared online Monday: The road to Trump’s White House was paved with good intentions. ;^\ pic.twitter.com/YzOnLjJsxk The portrait shows a man who looks like Comey being told during confession: “Of course God forgives you, my son. But the rest of us aren’t quite there yet!” The image is captioned: “The road to Trump’s White House was paved with good intentions.” The caption appears to refer to Comey’s admission in his new book, A Higher Loyalty, that he believed Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton would defeat Trump in the 2016 election and that expectation may have influenced his handling of the investigation into her use of a private email server. In recent weeks, Carrey has used his artwork to mock Trump, his allies and various members of his administration ― including former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani: Ghouliani: Finally, a face we can trust! 8^¥ pic.twitter.com/IU1IG8sf0T Trump’s personal attorney Michael Cohen: Auto-moronic ASSphyxiation. ;^P pic.twitter.com/VA6mmkjtk0 Fox News host Sean Hannity: Sean Manatee: some endangered species aren't worth saving! ;^P  #SeanHannity pic.twitter.com/UL2wHRAzJb And Trump himself: Did anyone watch 60 minutes last night? Hell of a piece about a poor kid from Greece named Giannis Antetokounmpo who’s making it big in the NBA. America still has some magic. Pity you have to wade through so much cultural sewage to find it. ;^} pic.twitter.com/H4BTPcw8bu If you liked my last cartoon you may also enjoy..."THE WICKED WITCH OF THE WEST WING AND PUTIN’S FLYING MONKEYS“ pic.twitter.com/slBG7j1s8d Dear Smithsonian National Portrait Gallery @NPG, I know it’s early but I’d like to submit this as the official portrait of our 45th President, Donald J. Trump. It’s called, 'You Scream. I Scream. Will We Ever Stop Screaming?' pic.twitter.com/LrCmlXXpv7