For the weekend of April 7, Streamline recommends “Collateral” in the top Netflix spot for the fifth time. Over the last few weeks, Netflix has debuted far more original movies than original shows. “Collateral” is very, very good, but it has only maintained that top spot for so long because Netflix hasn’t debuted anything worthy to knock it down. Still, if you haven’t checked out the show yet, you definitely should. Carey Mulligan’s character is one of the most inventive and charming on television in a while and alone makes “Collateral” worthwhile. “Troy: Fall of a City” debuts this week. It has “Game of Thrones” vibes kind of sort of, but it’s also certainly no “Game of Thrones.” The budget is much smaller, the writing worse and the acting choices far more questionable. Still, if you love period pieces with sword-fighting, this might be good for you. Note that the show does focus more heavily on its central love story than its battle sequences. It also veers wildly from the source material of The Iliad. Maybe watch the trailer below and decide for yourself if this is your kind of show. Honestly, it’s not for me. These weekly updates about new Netflix shows appear on HuffPost on Saturday mornings, but you can also stay up-to-date with what to watch by subscribing to the Streamline newsletter. Will Ferrell and Adam McKay are teaming up again for a new comedy project. This time around, the two (who did movies like “Anchorman” and “Step Brothers” before) are making a television series called “Dead to Me.” This will apparently be a “dark comedy.” Here’s a first look photo for Netflix’s upcoming reimagining of “Sabrina the Teenage Witch.” The A.V. Club put it well: “This image is so happy that it seems like something from a lighthearted Disney channel movie about teenagers in love, not a spooky show about a girl who has surrendered her soul to Satan in exchange for sinister magic powers. Where are the pentagrams? Where are the Baphomet drawings?” Suffice it to say, it’s unclear what the tone of this show will be. Netflix is getting another animated show, this time from the “Brickleberry” creators. The upcoming program is called “Paradise P.D.” and will focus on a small-town police department. Adam Sandler and Jennifer Aniston are reuniting for a new movie. The upcoming Netflix comedy is called “Murder Mystery.” The two will play a married couple who get caught up in the murder of a billionaire. It will probably be bad but very popular, right? And Netflix is apparently going to spend around $300 million to buy a billboard advertising company in California. This would allow the company to dominate some of the most prominent billboards around Los Angeles with its own ads while leaving its rivals fighting for the remaining spaces. The Netflix Twitter account is one of those try-hard media brands that like to make jokes. Streamline will present one a week without comment. The Duffer brothers have responded to a plagiarism lawsuit alleging they stole the idea for “Stranger Things” from a 2012 short film called “Montauk.” The creator of that movie alleges that he met with the Duffers in 2014 to pitch turning his short into a television series. An attorney representing the brothers issued a statement calling the suit “completely meritless.” There’s a potential smoking gun: a 2015 Hollywood Reporter story about Netflix inking a new deal with the Duffer brothers that called their forthcoming project “Montauk.” Streamline includes related reading below the show recommendations, as well as a list of other shows and movies joining the service this week. Note: This list only includes shows that debuted their most recent episode less than a year ago. Much like the main list, it prioritizes newness. April 9 April 10 April 12 April 13