  Originally published on Mother.ly By Emily Glover When a child is intentionally defying us, as parents our first reaction may be to try to correct the disruptive behaviour and hope that will prevent a repeat performance, but it turns out that an extra dose of love might help even more than corrective measures. As a new meta-analysis of more than 150 studies shows, when our kids are acting out the best response is to manage the behaviour while also reassuring our children that they are loved. The research, published this week in the journal Child Development, looks at studies conducted with more than 15,000 families in 20 countries. Among children aged 2 to 10 with disruptive behaviour, the responses from parents could be categorised as either aiming to "enhance" the relationship (e.g. being more sensitive to the child's needs) or "managing" the behaviour (e.g. with discipline for bad behaviour and/or praise for positive behaviour). The research shows that the winning solution really seems to be a combination of the two, especially among children who are already lashing out — because that's the power of empathy. "For children who have already developed severe disruptive behaviour, adding relationship building to behaviour management is key to reducing these problems," says G.J. Melendez-Torres, senior lecturer in social sciences and health at the University of Cardiff, who co-authored the study. Although Melendez-Torres notes that adding relationship building to behaviour management didn't seem to prevent outbursts, there is still no downside to it. "Adding relationship building to behaviour management may benefit children who have not yet developed severe disruptive behaviour in other ways, such as encouraging better overall communication between parents and children." When it's put like that, it may seem like common sense. But as Rebecca Eanes, author of "Positive Parenting: An Essential Guide", has previously told Motherly that cultural messages about the "terrible twos" or "threenagers" may cause us to see the worst in our children. "When we reduce them to the behaviour they currently display, we miss out on seeing their beauty, their light and ultimately their potential," Eanes previously wrote. "If we can correct, teach and guide our children from a position of seeing the light within them rather than their momentary setbacks along the way, how much higher will they reach?" As child development psychologist Ashley Soderlund has said for Motherly, our job as parents is to give our children the tools to handle their behavioural problems differently the next time around — and this calls for empowering them. To do that, she suggests this response: Then, critically, you end with a phrase that empowers the child: "You'll remember next time." Those few, small words can make a big difference when parenting children with disruptive behaviours — more than 150 studies now prove it. 