A man wanted for carrying out a deadly shooting at a Waffle House restaurant in Tennessee early Sunday morning had guns he possessed seized by authorities after an incident at the White House last summer but was later re-armed by his father, authorities said. Travis Reinking, 29, of Morton, Illinois, remains on the run and possibly armed more than 12 hours after the shooting near Nashville in Antioch that left four people dead and two others injured, the authorities said at an afternoon press conference. Reinking was naked as he escaped the scene, according to police. Reinking, whose authorization for possessing guns was revoked last year, arrived at the restaurant in a pickup truck around 3:19 a.m. with an AR-15 rifle and at least two magazines that were recovered near the scene, police said. “He clearly came armed with a lot of firepower intending to devastate the south Nashville area,” said Don Aaron, spokesman for the Metropolitan Nashville Police Department. As of Sunday afternoon, two firearms that had been owned by Reinking have not been located, Aaron said. It’s not known whether Reinking has the weapons, which were described as a handgun and a long-gun rifle. After opening fire upon the diners and its staff, Reinking was tackled and disarmed by 29-year-old diner James Shaw Jr., who said he pounced upon seeing Reinking’s gun jam. Reinking then fled the scene on foot, wearing nothing but a green jacket, which he discarded along the way. At Sunday’s press conference, Shaw was introduced by Nashville Mayor David Briley as a hero. “He saved lives, that is certain and we are all thankful to him for his bravery,” Briley said. “I was just trying to get myself out. I saw the opportunity and pretty much took it,” Shaw, who suffered a minor gunshot wound to his arm, told The Tennessean. Police identified three of those killed as Taurean Sanderlin, 29, a Waffle House employee; Joe Perez, 20, a restaurant customer shot as he stood outside; and Akilah Dasilva, 23, of Antioch. A 21-year-old woman from Gallatin, Tennessee, whose name has not yet been released also died. Reinking was arrested last July after being found in an unauthorized area outside of the White House. When questioned by authorities, Reinking allegedly said that he was trying to meet with President Donald Trump. During an investigation into that case, Reinking’s firearms were taken away and given to his father, who subsequently gave them back to his son, authorities said. Nashville Police Chief Steve Anderson said they suspect Reinking has mental health issues. A motive for the shooting is not yet known. Reinking is believed to be still on foot and possibly wearing only black pants, without shoes or a shirt. That description follows a sighting of someone resembling him near his apartment complex, police said. “Keep your doors locked, keep your eyes open. If you see this individual, if you see a nude guy walking around this morning, call the police department immediately,” Aaron said at an earlier press conference. Videos shared on Twitter by Jeremy Searcy show officers searching the grounds around an apartment complex with a police dog. Residents at the complex, which was described as about a mile from the Waffle House, told local reporters that Reinking moved into an apartment there about two months ago. Not much more was known about him, as he was described as keeping to himself. Nashville Mayor David Briley released a statement on Twitter expressing his condolences to the shooting victims. “It’s a tragic day for our city anytime people lose their lives at the hands of a gunman. My heart goes out to the families & friends of every person who was killed or wounded in this morning’s shooting. I know all of their lives will be forever changed by this devastating crime,” he said. Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam  also posted on Twitter to express his and his wife’s sadness over the shooting Waffle House also released a statement on Twitter. Last September, Antioch was the scene of another deadly shooting when a gunman fatally shot one person and wounded seven others at the Burnette Chapel Church of Christ. This story has been updated with details on the victim and comments by authorities at an afternoon press conference.