The National Youth Development Agency (NYDA) has labelled President Jacob Zuma's announcement to implement free education as an historic one. However, it claims the Heher Commission Report sought to create profit. The NYDA feels that the commission was hijacked by banks seeking to replace NSFAS and put students further in debt. NYDA also disagrees with claims by government that it cannot afford free education. Read: Full Statement On Free Higher Education By The DHET "We believe that the commission was hijacked by the banks for their own commercial interests. The commission report sought to create profit out of the misery of the poor in this country. It sought to replace NSFAS with banks, thereby indebting our students, their parents and government for life", it said. 


                                                                


    
      In December, Zuma announced that government would fully subsidise higher education for poor and working-class students. NYDA rejected the commission report and wrote to the presidency, asking them to consider the following:. What does this mean? When granted a NSFAS loan, students are required to pay back the money used to fund their academic year –– because it was a loan. What the NYDA wanted was for the loan to be converted into a grant (like a social grant to pensioners), which would mean students would not have to repay the money. The NYDA wants registration fees scrapped completely, mainly because some students cannot afford the prices of administration. Here are just some of the registration fee in South Africa's national universities. University of Johannesburg -- R3,870 University of Cape Town -- R1,250 Durban University of Technology -- R3,690 University of Pretoria -- R5,000 University of Witwatersrand -- R9,340 


                                                                            


    
      This means NSFAS historical debt should be wiped out.  The rest of the suggestions included: The NYDA also condemned the actions of ministers sceptical of free education, and those who pose the question: "Where will the money come from?" "We have taken note that some sections of society (mostly affluent) have met this announcement with scepticism, and others have gone to great lengths to label this announcement by government as populist and political posturing." Read: Nzimande On Free Higher Education: 'Where Is The Money Going To Come From?' "We condemn such attitudes with the contempt that [they deserve]. It's quite disappointing that even former ministers who were charged with the responsibility of realising free education as per the manifesto of the ruling party have now come out openly that in their shoulders [sic], this would not have happened." 


                                                    


    
      To read the full statement by the NYDA: click here 