A California couple has been charged with child endangerment and torture after police on Sunday discovered their 12 children locked inside their home, some in chains and starving, officials said on Monday. A 17-year-old girl managed to escape the house in Perris, California, and alerted authorities that her 12 brothers and sisters were being held captive by their parents, according to a police statement. the Riverside County Sheriff’s Department dispatched deputies alongside officers from the Perris Police Department to meet the teenager, who they said looked “to be only 10 years old and slightly emaciated.” Authorities went to the residence and questioned the parents, David Allen Turpin, 57, and Louise Anna Turpin, 49. “Further investigation revealed several children shackled to their beds with chains and padlocks in dark and foul-smelling surroundings, but the parents were unable to immediately provide a logical reason why their children were restrained in that manner,” the sherriff’s department said in a statement. Authorities said they found five other minors, as young as 2, and seven adults, whose ages ranged from 18 to 29, in the house. All of the victims appeared to be dirty and malnourished. The minors were transported to Riverside University Hospital System, and the adults were sent to Corona Regional Medical Center for examination and medical treatment. The sheriff’s department did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for comment. Both parents were transported to the Robert Presley Detention Center and each were being held on $9 million bail. The Turpins are set to appear in court on Thursday, Reuters reports. Public records suggest the Turpins homeschooled their children. California’s Department of Education rists David Turpin as the principal of the Sandcastle Day School, a K-12 private school located at the Turpins’ home address which had six students enrolled last year. According to state law, parents may register their home schools as private institutions. David Turpin’s mother, Betty, told CNN that the family was “highly respectable” and would usually take vacations, during which all of the children were dressed alike and had to be lined up according to age in order to keep track of everyone. “They were very protective of the kids,” she said. Kimberly Milligan, 50, told The Washington Post that in more than two years she lived next door to the Turpins, she rarely heard or saw the children, who she thought were “very young ― 11, 12, 13 at the most.” Milligan’s son, Robert Perkins, recalled the children looking frail and thin. “You knew something was off. It didn’t make a lot of sense,” Milligan told the Post. “But this is something else entirely.” Another neighbor, Wendy Martinez, told Reuters that she only communicated with the family once. She was passing the Turpins’ house while four of the children were installing sod in the yard. “They were very, like, afraid,” she said of the children. “Like they had never seen people before.”