Nothing says January quite like staying in to watch binge-watch TV shows instead of going out, which is why many TV fans are eternally grateful to Netflix.  Having dropped 'Black Mirror' just after Christmas, the streaming service has delivered again, and if you haven't streamed 'The End Of The F***ing World' yet, then chances are you're probably about to. The series has been available on All4 since last October but is a newcomer to Netflix, and since Friday 5 January, it's been given pride of place on many users' home screens. And the plan has worked. With its Rotten Tomatoes rating now at 100%, 'The End Of The F***ing World' is officially the show to binge-watch this month. Here's what all the fuss is about...  The dark comedy sees two teens, James and Alyssa, start a relationship and take a road trip across the UK. This might sound really romantic, but James is actually a psychopath. Which, obviously, proves to be a problem. The eight-part series is based on Charles Forsman's graphic novel, of the same name. James is played by Alex Lawther, star of the 2017 film 'Goodbye Christopher Robin', who you might also recognise from one of the most talked about 'Black Mirror' episodes of 2016, 'Shut Up And Dance'. Jessica Barden, whose previous credits include 'Mindhorn' and 'Penny Dreadful' stars as Alyssa. Jessica also popped up in 'Coronation Street' back in 2007, playing Kayleigh Morton. The 100% rating on Rotten Tomatoes pretty much tells you everything you need to know, surely? Vulture described it as "taking more unexpected narrative turns as it goes on, and that makes it worth watching, assuming you can muscle your way through the accompanying gloom and occasional gore" while Den Of Geek praised the "great writing and top performances".  See for yourself... It hasn't been ruled out and with the show's growing popularity, we reckon there's every chance a second series will be commissioned. The on-screen drama does cover all of the events detailed in the graphic novel though, so the plot would need to be devised by writer Charlie Covell. Watch this space. Check out the trailer below... 