The ladies of Twitter never fail to brighten our days with their brilliant ― but succinct ― wisdom. Each week, HuffPost Women rounds up hilarious 280-character musings. For this week’s great tweets from women, scroll through the list below. Then visit our Funniest Tweets From Women page for our past collections. Sign up for our Funniest Tweets Of The Week newsletter here. It's Guy Fieri's birthday today. He gets to make a wish by blowing out all the flames on his shirt There are three certainties in life: death, taxes, and no matter what you cook in there your microwave smells like hotdogs. Nothing like eating a healthy salad for lunch so that I can be hungry and mad all day I'm starting to think any desire I have ever had to be or get pregnant came from early obsessive viewings of Father of The Bride 2 FUN PRANK: continue to have hope in our elected officials ME: I'm laying off carbs this month. * 5 mins later *ME: Pack a bottle of water because we're about to drive 45 minutes to the nearest Red Lobster because I saw a pic of the San Francisco Bay on IG and now all I can think about is getting a cheddar bay biscuit in my mouth. My new thing is finding birds that look like they are twice divorced pic.twitter.com/IYKmIplUFv *sits bolt upright in bed in the middle of the night*Why isn't there grape La Croix?? working on my present day Sopranos fan fiction in which Adriana dumps Christopher because she makes more money than him by promoting flat tummy tea to her 300k Instagram followers Bought a treadmill that hooks into Google Map streetview so that I can virtually run around my neighborhood...My evolution to total introvert is complete. did yall know having a water cooler in your house is only like $25/month? i'm bout to be hydrated as fuck. I’ve never seen This Is Us but based on how hard it makes you guys cry I assume it’s just the scene in Homeward Bound where Shadow comes home played over and over. Made lasagna so I won't have to cook again for about 3 weeks. I’m sorry we have a Best Picture category and THIS HAS NEVER MADE IT? pic.twitter.com/WDfzex1Suu I forgot deodorant today and used the ole hand sanitizer in the armpits trick and I don't smell terrible! I mean I smell faintly of a vodka aunt but that's my aesthetic anyway! *drinks iced coffee**pees 6 times every hour for the next 10 hours* Don't forget to turn your Doomsday Clocks forward & your history books backward me: "who cares about birthdays lol I'm grown now it's just another day"also me: *has told every single human I've come in contact with for weeks that my birthday is on friday* Bodega cats seems fun until you realize why they’re there