Dolores O’Riordan, the singer of the 1990s Irish band The Cranberries, died Monday in London, according to media reports. She was 46. The cause of death was not immediately made public. O’Riordan lived in Ireland but was in London for a short recording session, according to the BBC. The Cranberries formed in 1989 and rose to international fame in 1993 with the release of their debut album, “Everybody Else Is Doing It So Why Can’t We,” and its accompanying hit single, “Linger.” The followup album, “No Need To Argue,” kept up the momentum thanks to the worldwide smash “Zombie.” The band went on hiatus in 2003, and O’Riordan launched a solo career in 2007. The Cranberries reformed in 2009 and toured North America and Europe. Although The Cranberries had scheduled a European tour last year, they were forced to cancel it because of O’Riordan’s ongoing back problem, according to CBS News. O’Riordan posted on Facebook in December, saying she was “feeling good.” O’Riordan is survived by her son and two daughters with former husband of 20 years, Don Burton: Taylor, 20, Molly, 16 and Dakota, 12. Many celebrities have started to pay their tributes to the singer on Twitter. Nooooo!! Have always adored her songs and voice https://t.co/asBAt1RJl1 I once met Delores O’Riordan when I was 15. She was kind and lovely, I got her autograph on my train ticket and it made my day. She had the most amazing voice and presence. So sorry to hear that she’s passed away today x I’m really shocked that #DoloresORiordan has passed so suddenly - I was talking to her a couple weeks before Christmas she seemed happy and well - we even spoke about maybe writing some songs together - unbelievable god bless her pic.twitter.com/Pk2QyAaaBw Devastated for fans and her family- Dolores O’Riorden had such an exquisite voice, so distinctive and defining of an era. She would have continued to be a rare musical treasure late into a long life #gonetoosoonhttps://t.co/2QH2cPgRf6 Statement by the Irish President Michael D. Higgins, on the death of #DoloresORiordanpic.twitter.com/KZGfjenLVS CORRECTION: A previous version of this story said The Cranberries rose to international fame in 1983. It was 1993. Share this slide: