Poet to Poet Strings of jazz to helmet Life to death Ntate, which moments here were fallible? Which ones carried the "loudness of blind desire"? What of the future of words? Loneliness and poetry Unrequited giving and years of beckoning light What is all of it supposed to look like? How are we meant to feel in the apocalypse of too many: Ages, Feelings, Rhythms, Cultures, Births, How is this moment meant to be archived -- neatly seated amongst memories and eulogies? How did you keep up with the cycle -- bore the pain and sickle of words, Showed up Housed jubilant rage with a conviction to smile... Your sons and swords Your daughters' tears Repetition and repercussions Exile. 


                                                    


    
      Ntate, the present continues to be a very dangerous place to live in Disenchantment and a plurality of breakings Ineffable catastrophes that kill feint hearts The urban stage has never been pro-truth In fact, The urban stage has killed too many poets Poet to Poet, For the sake of it all, How did you out breathe most poets? One day I asked you about black protest culture and secure spaces for rage It was about jazz, Ntate Poetry as Jazz and protest Multilayered and multidimensional dissents, This worded moment of struggle -- Four hemispheres and multiple lives. 


                                                    


    
      Poet to Poet, Life and death Confusion and... mostly confusion Deep rivers and aching, Ntate, melancholia is drumming rare grooves on hard bop and... I am drawn to these things, Ntate The parallels, Ntate, The duos An acidity I am scared the ANC made you tired -- Broken promises and a never returning Azania. 


                                                    


    
      My heart is idle and to this day my relationship with words is slippery, I am still a mere mortal whose hello is a whistle and There is so much here. Thus if this is really the end, May my heartfelt, spirit led, love-driven gratitude find you I hope grace covers you always. There is a Wilhelm scream for beautiful black ancestors May you please, kindly and always remember us. 