Fashion designer Rich Mnisi has unveiled his first experiments with furniture at a new exhibition, and audiences can't agree whether they love or hate the creative's unusual design. Mnisi's couch, called Nwa-Mulamula after his late great-grandmother, takes an organic form that winds in leather around itself — a shape that visitors have compared to the female form, among other more lewd suggestions. ""For me, the chaise, which takes the shape of Nwa-Mulamula's (The Guardian's) body in the form of a navy leather couch, represents her presence and long-lasting teachings, and the stool, in the shape of an eye with gold puddles, represents her tears, which were never in vain," explains Mnisi. So humbled to be part of the EXTRA ORDINARY Show.... Doing furniture! Such a huge achievement for me this. God is hard at work. Thank you @southernguildgallery for everything, what a magical experience. Most of all my mother for always telling me stories about Nwa-Mulamula - she was a force which I constantly wish I could've encountered.... A post shared by  Rich Fumani Mnisi (@rich_fumani) on Feb 14, 2018 at 10:29pm PST  "Without her pain and her experiences, I wouldn't exist. I couldn't be the person I am today," he says. The couch forms part of Southern Guild's extraordinary group exhibition at its gallery in Cape Town's Silo District, where it is shown alongside works by ceramic artists Zizipho Poswa and Madoda Fani, sculptors Daniella Mooney and Stanislaw Trzebinski, and newcomers such as 3D illustrator Ferdi B Dick. But, online audiences couldn't agree whether they loved or hated the couch: Some said the couch was marvellous. She is alive. She is a woman. So proud of your collaboration with @southernguildgallery @rich_fumani ✨ everyday I am so humbled and amazed by your talent, you inspire me! Now how do we get her into our apartment? 🤔 A post shared by  Liam Anthony (@liamlanthony) on Feb 14, 2018 at 10:23pm PST  But others weren't so sure.  The designer's latest fashion collection has won rave reviews, but what do you think of his unusual seat? 