President Donald Trump sparked some online anger when he gave a thumbs-up while posing for a photo with law enforcement officers who’d responded to Wednesday’s deadly school shooting in Parkland, Florida. Many people called out Trump over the gesture, which he reportedly made during a visit to the Broward County Sheriff’s Office on Friday. Washington Post reporter Mark Berman noted how the president had also updated his personal Twitter account’s banner with the image: The president's new Twitter banner is a photo of him smiling and giving a thumbs up while meeting tonight with police officers who responded to the massacre of 17 people, most of them students, at a high school in Parkland pic.twitter.com/3NoH95CqKQ Tweeters accused Trump of being “tone deaf” and lacking empathy and compassion. A sampling of the responses below: Smiling and thumbs up?  Most of us have been distraught about what happened (and keeps happening). Trump just changed his Twitter banner to him grinning and giving a thumbs up while meeting with people who just responded to a deadly school shooting pic.twitter.com/hNQnIJhfbu Here’s Trump’s new header pic. He’s meeting with Florida police about the Parkland shooting and giving a thumbs up like he’s at the grand opening of a car lot. pic.twitter.com/IQhnsTPIfv What a vile excuse for a human being...he is totally empty inside There is no low too low for this man You disgusting, emotionless, phony person @realDonaldTrump. To give a thumbs up like you just had a great dinner. No empathy. Disgusting. Go away. Trump’s new Twitter banner is a photo of him posing with the Broward County Sheriff’s Office - the first responders in the Parkland shooting. He is grinning and giving a thumbs up. Seriously, wtf is wrong with him? pic.twitter.com/eCzXW49Aoh What a sick sociopath #Disgusting #tonedeaf Trump keeps redefining the term "rock bottom". That is disgusting on so many levels This is even worse than the paper-towel-throwing. And that was a high bar I would like to be able to say I’m appalled but with this sociopath I’m not at all surprised