Earlier presented only as 'Witness X', Ajay Sooklal was delivering explosive testimony at the People's Tribunal during sessions on the arms deal corruption on Monday afternoon. Sooklal, an attorney who had a close relationship with people involved in the arms deal and in the upper echelons of the ANC, has made allegations placing ANC bigwigs and corporate bosses at the centre of alleged arms deal corruption. The allegations so far, mostly referring to events in the late 1990s and early 2000s, relate to the investigation by South African authorities into Thales, formerly called Thompson-CSF, a French arms manufacturer and notorious sanctions-buster at the centre of the arms deal and allegations of corruption against President Jacob Zuma.  Among the explosive allegations is Sooklal's claim that there were numerous attempts by French officials to quash the investigation into Thales by the National Prosecuting Authority. This included a direct request by then president of France, Jacques Chirac, to then president of South Africa, Thabo Mbeki, he said. Sooklal in his testimony has detailed just how close he has been to these dealings. He attended meetings in France and South Africa with Thales bosses and South African officials where he was privy to much information  Sooklal says there were numerous attempts by French officials to quash the investigation into Thales by SA authorities. He said that in 2004, French president Chirac asked Thabo Mbeki that the NPA stop investigating Thales role in arms deal Thales is alleged to have committed bribes of R500,000 per year to then deputy president Jacob Zuma to protect Thales in the arms deal probe. Sooklal says following this promise to Zuma, the NPA landed up withdrawing the charges. Sooklal now going into details of the infamous encrypted fax - Thales commited to R500k per year bribe of then dept pres Jacob Zuma to protect Thales in #ArmsDeal probes. Zuma used codeword "Eiffel Tower" to accept money. @TeamNews24#PeoplesTribunal Thales is also alleged to have made a 1-million-Euro "donation" to the ANC ahead of the 2006 elections through, the payment of which was made to then ANC treasurer-general Mendi Msimang. Other role players include then President Thabo Mbeki, Mr Schabir Shaik, Mr Shaik's brother and attorney, Mr Kgalemo Motlante, Jacob Zuma #PeoplesTribunal  He also testified that former financial adviser to Jacob Zuma, Schabir Shaik, received money from Thales via a Swiss bank account, some of which was transferred to Mac Maharaj and his wife Zarina who then transferred these funds to a bank account in the Isle of Man. Thetard, Perrier, Schaik, Maharaj are implicated in the bribe agreement, Sooklal says. He bases this on the judgement from Swiss courts. Says we must ask why the NPA didn't prosecute based on this info.  Unsurprisingly - the payment of bribes and hush money alleged by Sooklal to have been payed to Maharaj were mostly transferred to large banks in Switzerland, France, Isle of Mann. These are the facilitators of global corruption. #PeoplesTribunalhttps://t.co/7a7NZ6d217  Ajay Sooklal giving damning evidence of the role of banks and tax havens like the Isle of Mann and Virgin Islands in helping money gotten through corruption and bribes to move offshore to be hidden and cover tracks #PeoplesTribunal@TaxJusticeNet  Dear @INTERPOL_HQ: this is the first time a photo of Alain Thetard, French arms dealer, and major player in the corrupt South Africa arms deal been made public. You may want to share this with your whatsapp group. #PeoplesTribunalhttps://t.co/POyD6NcveT   Sooklal's explosive testimony continues - claims Thales SA boss Pierre Moynot admitted to paying US$1million to Chippy Shaik, who headed SA's arms procurement. @TeamNews24#PeoplesTribunal  Following the initial part of his testimony, Sooklal was grilled by panel chair Zac Yacoob as to the moment in which he "realised Zuma was a corrupt man". Yacoob, however, did not elicit clear answers from Sooklal who repeatedly insisted the questions asked were not relevant or did not apply to him. Yacoob continued in his attempt to elicit clear answers, offering Sooklal the opportunity to adjourn so he could gather his thoughts. Evidently uncomfortable with the line of questioning, Sooklal ultimately chose to withdraw from the Tribunal. Earlier, Yacoob said Sooklal could not appear before the Tribunal and expect to protect himself as someone who may have been complicit in the crimes to which he is testifying. Yacoob said "inconsistencies and difficulties" in the inquiry could not be dismissed simply out of sympathy for a whistleblower. He added the whistleblower could not be allowed to protect him or herself in the process of whistleblowing otherwise it would affect the credibility of the whistleblower. Nevertheless, the former Constitutional Court Justice in his capacity as panel chair ultimately said if Sooklal chose not to answer questions, the panel would respect his decision. Sooklal after extensive deliberation opted to leave. The hearings continue on Tuesday. 