  Rev. Billy Graham, the famous evangelist who died on Wednesday, was a charismatic preacher, a counselor to presidents, and a leading figure in American evangelicalism. As news of his death spread, many Christians took time to reflect on the 99-year-old pastor's long life and legacy. During his more than six decades as an evangelist, Graham invited millions of people to make a personal commitment to Christ during revival meetings around the world, which he called crusades. Thousands responded to his altar call, often to the tune of one of his favorite old hymns, "Just As I Am." But the gospel of salvation that Graham preached never invited queer Americans to come the altar just as they were. The pastor also held conservative views about women. And while he opposed racial segregation, he was not as active as other Christian leaders during the 1960s civil rights era. Still, with his crusades and fiery preaching, he inspired a spiritual revival in the lives of generations of Christians. He's praised for being nonpartisan about politics, at least later on in his life ― meeting with every president from Harry Truman to Barack Obama. On Wednesday, many reposted on Twitter a quote attributed to Graham, in which the pastor reveals his beliefs about death. Others quoted a well-known Bible verse to honor Graham. In the parable, an employer congratulates his servant for wisely using the gifts given to him, saying, "Well done, good and faithful servant." The tributes poured in from prominent evangelical leaders ... ... and from other strains of American Christianity. "The crusades and ministry of the Rev. Billy Graham was a big tent, a revival tent — big, gracious, welcoming, and deeply grounded in the love that is the way of Jesus."
- Presiding Bishop Michael Curry

Full statement on the death of Rev. Billy Graham: https://t.co/KN8rTBRJlf Billy Graham's life was about following Jesus & he knew that meant an ongoing commitment to be changed by love. "It's the Holy Spirit's job to convict, God's job to judge, and my job to love," Graham often said. https://t.co/g6iJsVM326 Some pointed out that his legacy was mixed, especially for LGBTQ Americans and others who are harmed by conservative interpretations of Christianity. His life reminds me that people of honest and earnest faith can remain blind to suffering and oppression. May we love God as sincerely as he did, but may we also learn to see and love our neighbor. Today the world bids farewell to an apostle of racist complicity. He was a uniquely gifted antecedent of the corporatization and ideologization of American Christianity. #BillyGraham But many gave him his due as a towering figure in America's religious history. Billy Graham was the last "true" evangelical. He made mistakes for sure, but he always seemed to err on the side of love. He will be missed. #BillyGraham#RIPBillyGraham We will spend breath and energy and ink as progressives over his legacy, frankly I don't care. He preached good news to more people than all of us ever will. We would be wise to respect that. Well done, good and faithful servant. pic.twitter.com/O7Vkj3k6dH Billy Graham's faithfulness and grace in the midst of worldwide fame is an example from which all of us can draw inspiration. An imperfect but devoted servant whose preaching pointed so many to Jesus. Celebrating his presence with the Risen Christ today.   Share this slide: