For some of us, a house near the sea is a dream of consumption to be achieved. But for the Bajau Laut community this is simply part of who they are. The people occupy the island of Borneo, divided between Indonesia, Malaysia and Brunei. The marine nomads lived practically all their life in the ocean, with houses constructed in the middle of the sea and having as main sustenance the fishing. They only leave their boats and return to the mainland to exchange or sell their products.   Previously, they have lived on many of the islands of the Sulu archipelago in the Philippines, but many migrated to neighboring Sabah in Borneo due to conflict between Muslim groups and the Philippine government. They have no citizenship and therefore have no rights. They are not officially recognized by the Malaysian government. Families do not have access to public policies, such as the health service, nor do children have access to local education.   The Bajau traditionally live in craft boats, the "lepa-lepa", bringing everything they need to the sea, including cooking utensils, kerosene lamps, food, water and even plants. For a long time, it was thought that the community might be disappearing due to the decline in trade and food stocks. In recent years, an increasing number of Bajau Laut are returning to the continent in search of work - a movement that can decree the end of this way of life.   British photographer James Morgan began documenting the life of the Bajau community on a visit in 2014. In an interview with Business Insider , published this month, Morgan stated that people's knowledge about the ocean was so deep that they were able to feel the tsunami before it happens and thus better prepare for the impacts. The Bajau are hunter-gatherers and live primarily from underwater fishing. They are professional divers and can swim depths up to 100 feet (30 meters) in search of fish and pearls. However, destructive fishing practices by large fishing vessels are increasingly common in the region. The use of fertilizer bombs and potassium cyanide destroy not only the reefs but also impact countless lives. For Morgan, the Bajau reveal a complex relationship with the ocean, considered by them a multifaceted and living entity. "There are spirits in currents and tides, in coral reefs and mangroves. My point of interest is the potential to fit Bajau's unique understanding of the ocean with broader marine conservation strategies, in order to facilitate conservation, rather to destroy, their culture and the spectacular marine environments that they have called home for centuries, "defends the photographer in testimonial on his website . Here are some pictures of the Bajau people: Whilst few young Bajau are now born on boats, the ocean is still very much their playground. And whilst they are getting conflicted messages from their communities, who simultaneously refrain from spitting in the ocean and continue to dynamite its reefs, I still believe they could play a crucial role in the development of western marine conservation practices. Here Enal plays with his pet shark #WangiWangi #Indonesia #petshark #sharkboy -- Thanks to @ilcp_photographers for letting us share a week full of Coral Triangle images this week! A post shared by  James Morgan (@jamesmorganfoto) on Jan 14, 2018 at 2:31pm PST For some young Bajau who are born and live on boats, the ocean is still their favorite backyard. And while they are absorbing conflicting messages from their communities, which at the same time refrain from plunging into the ocean and continue to destroy their reefs, I still believe they can play a crucial role in developing good marine conservation practices in the western seas . Here, Enal plays with his pet shark. To avoid a painful bite, Imran will catch this box fish by placing his thumb and forefinger in its eye sockets and, once it is essentially blindfolded, he will lead it back to the boat. #Sulawesi #Indonesia #fishing #photojournalism A post shared by  James Morgan (@jamesmorganfoto) on Nov 11, 2017 at 5:58am PST To avoid a painful bite, Imran will catch this fish by placing his thumb and forefinger on his eyebrows, and once he is blindfolded, he will take him to the boat. Jatmin surfacing with an octopus. The spearguns the Bajau carry are handy for rooting the creatures from the holes in which they hide .#Sulawesi #Indonesia. A post shared by  James Morgan (@jamesmorganfoto) on May 8, 2017 at 4:39am PDT Jatmin comes back with an octopus. The tools used by the Bajau are useful for catching the animals in any hole in which they hide.