LATEST: EWN is reporting that the meeting of the ANC's national executive committee is still ongoing at the Saint George Hotel outside Irene, near Pretoria. There is no indication of the nature of the debate inside. News24 has reported the Collen Maine, leader of the ANC Youth League and an ardent supporter of President Jacob Zuma, has left. The NEC deliberated for two days and into the night during the recall of former president Thabo Mbeki in September 2008. After the NEC took the decision a delegation of the party's leadership visited Mbeki in Pretoria in the early hours of the morning. The decision was announced to the media later that day. The NEC meeting started at 14:00. *** EARLIER: The presidency denied reports that an agreement had been reached about Zuma's future. According to an SABC report on Monday afternoon, Zuma had agreed to step down, adding that the only sticking point was who would communicate the decision: government or the ANC. BBC news correspondent Milton Nkosi also reported that the ANC had recalled Zuma. In a subsequent tweet, however, he said as a matter of 'clarification' that the ANC national executive committee (NEC) meeting was still ongoing. Although calls for Zuma to step down had been made, he said, there was no official announcement made by the ANC. BBC senior correspondent @nkosi_milton now reporting that ANC has recalled President Zuma. We are still waiting for independent confirmation. @TeamNews24 #ZumaExit https://t.co/hNopchEUMR  So there it is, #SABCNews reports that #ANCNEC have a deal and @PresidencyZA #Zuma will be recalled. #ZumaExit #ANC pic.twitter.com/Y8xbW0gsWs  A presidential official shortly after told News24 that news of Zuma's resignation was false: A presidential official has said the news of President Jacob Zuma's resignation is false but waiting for official statement. @TeamNews24  There has been no communication by the ANC on Monday. The meeting of the governing party's national executive committee started at 14:00 and is still ongoing. ANC NEC members, as well as some blue light brigades, arrived well before the start time of the meeting. Camped outside the St George Hotel in Irene ahead of ANC NEC meeting this afternoon. A few blue light vehicles have entered the premises #Zexit (@leosejake) pic.twitter.com/8MqqBFWaEn  ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa is the first to arrive at the venue at Irene outside Pretoria where the governing party's NEC is to meet today to decide on the fate of President Jacob Zuma #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/dT1NUq35SF  Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa on Sunday told ANC supporters in Cape Town the NEC would on Monday bring the issue around Zuma's future to "finalisation" and "closure". The NEC meeting is continuing. Rand strengthens at prospect of Zuma exit https://t.co/2Ii6XOXsvr pic.twitter.com/Bh2kAKkK7F     