Jacob Zuma has had his share of ups and downs – not just as an ANC cadre and political prisoner back during the anti-apartheid struggle, but since 1994 too, and most notably as the leader of South Africa. His post-apartheid political career was beset early on by corruption and fraud allegations, which couldn't prevent his triumphant unseating of Thabo Mbeki from the ANC and state presidency. The roller-coaster continued through two scandal-and-lawsuit-plagued terms in office, and culminated in the intricate political gamesmanship that preceded his stepping down as president – only to be slapped with long-deferred criminal charges shortly thereafter. Photographer Alet Pretorius has been capturing Zuma's journey to the presidency from 2005, and she says he is one of the best people to photograph "because of the interesting facial expressions, and because he doesn't always follow the script". Have a look at the journey of Jacob Zuma: Unless otherwise credited, all images and text were captured by Alet Pretorius Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day. Newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements.
            Learn more Nkandla, Zuma's homestead   Zuma's homestead, Nkandla, shot in 2005. The improvements to Nkandla would become the topic of much controversy and many legal battles later. Pro-Zuma supporters a night before his court appearance   June 28, 2005: Zuma supporters held a night vigil before his court appearance the next morning. Zuma appears in court   June 29, 2005: Zuma appeared in the Durban Magistrate's Court. Thousands of supporters gathered at the court to show support for him. They protested for most of the day through the streets of Durban, ending at City Hall. Proclaimed the 'Black Jesus'   Zuma supporters proclaim him "a black Jesus" at a election rally at which Zuma and Julius Malema appeared together in Jane Furse, Limpopo. Inauguration   May 9, 2009: Kgalema Mothlante and Jacob Zuma at Zuma's inauguration as president of South Africa at the Union Buildings in Pretoria. Corruption charges dropped   April 6, 2009: Members of the press look on as NPA acting national director Mokotedi Mpshe announces the decision to drop corruption charges against Jacob Zuma at the NPA's headquarters in Pretoria. Cabinet announcement   May 10, 2009: President Jacob Zuma announces his new Cabinet at the Union Buildings. Take a girl child to work day   May 28, 2009: President Jacob Zuma hosted 10 children at his Cabinet lekgotla as part of "Take A Girl Child To Work Day' at the presidential guesthouse in Pretoria. National orders award ceremony   December 11, 2009: Zuma during the awards ceremony of national orders held at the presidential guesthouse in Pretoria. Zuma encourages residents to vote   November 8, 2013: President Jacob Zuma during a visit to Brazzaville in Pretoria, encouraging residents to register to vote for the following year's elections. Paying homage to the late Mandela   December 11, 2013: President Zuma with Madiba's body at the Union Buildings on December 11, 2013 in Pretoria. Former South African president Nelson Mandela passed away on the evening of December 5, 2013. Toast – Zuma and Mugabe   April 8, 2015: Zuma and then-president of Zimbabwe, Robert Mugabe, raise a glass of champagne at the presidential guest house during Mugabe's state visit to South Africa. Zuma must fall   July 10, 2016: Election posters featuring Jacob Zuma on a bridge in the small Eastern Cape town of Kei Mouth. State capture march   November 2, 2016: EFF supporters protest in a "state capture" march in Pretoria, South Africa. Political parties and civil society groups gathered across the country demanding that President Zuma step down, amid the release of then-public protector Thuli Madonsela's State Of Capture report.   Interesting facial expression   March 17, 2017: President Zuma reacts during the official launch of the Invest South Africa One Stop Shop (InvestSA OSS) at the DTI.   Union Buildings march   April 7, 2017: Several groups, including Save SA, the SACP, the EFF and Freedom Front Plus march with other South Africans from Church Square to the Union Buildings calling for the removal of the president. DA want Zuma gone   July 11, 2017: DA supporters picket outside the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) offices in Pretoria. The DA embarked on the protest hoping to put pressure on the authorities to investigate a series of break-ins at offices of law enforcement agencies. Steve Biko lurks in the shadows   September 12, 2017: President Zuma during his visit the Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Centre to lay a wreath at the cell of struggle hero Steve Bantu Biko in Pretoria. Zuma visited the centre as part of the commemoration of the 40th anniversary of Biko's death at the hands of apartheid security police in 1977. ANC national conference   December 18, 2017: Zuma during the announcement of new party leadership at the 54th ANC national conference at Nasrec Expo Centre, Soweto. Cyril Ramaphosa won the race between him and Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma for the party's top position.   Beginning of the end?   December 20, 2017: President Zuma during the first speech of Cyril Ramaphosa as the president of the ANC at the national conference at the Nasrec Expo Centre. Zuma steps down   February 14, 2018: President Zuma addresses the nation at the Union Buildings in Pretoria. (AFP PHOTO / Phill Magakoe)   February 14, 2018: Customers watch a telecast at a local restaurant in Durban, as President Zuma makes a live address to the nation on the South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) network from The Union Buildings in Pretoria. (AFP/Getty Images) Zuma has his day in court   Jacob Zuma appeared in court on the 6th of April, 2018, facing 16 charges of fraud, corruption, money laundering and racketeering. (POOL New / Reuters)   April 6, 2018: Supporters of Jacob Zuma rally prior to his appearance in the KwaZulu-Natal high court in Durban on corruption charges. (AFP/Getty Images)   April 6, 2018: Jacob Zuma waves to his supporters on his way to the high court in Durban. (Rogan Ward / Reuters)   April 6, 2018: Jacob Zuma waves to his supporters on his way the high court in Durban (Rogan Ward / Reuters)   April 6, 2018: Jacob Zuma on his way into the high court in Durban (AFP/Getty Images) 