If the new arrivals are any indication, Netflix is in the mood for some Valentine's Day love this month. How else can you explain the addition of "American Pie," "American Pie 2," "American Pie Presents: Band Camp," "American Pie Presents: The Book of Love" and "American Pie Presents: The Naked Mile" all on Feb. 1? Subscribers are real lucky this month. Besides the "American Pie" franchise, Netflix is adding movies such as the "Kill Bill" series, the "Ocean's" series, "Lincoln" and "The Hurt Locker." Also "The Emoji Movie," if that's your thing. Netflix will release a few of its own movies, too, such as "Mute," starring Alexander Skarsgård and Paul Rudd. And many romantic comedies, such as "When We First Met," "Love Per Square Foot" and "Irreplaceable You." Netflix Originals debuting this month include "Altered Carbon," "The Frankenstein Chronicles," "Seven Seconds" and a rebooted "Queer Eye." Two talk shows will also have new content: David Letterman is debuting an interview with George Clooney and Joel McHale will begin a new project. As far as last chances, there actually aren't a ton of major titles leaving Netflix this month. "Project X" is leaving, if you care about that. Quite a few winter holiday movies will be gone. "A Christmas Kiss II" leaves the day after Valentine's Day, so you could watch that with your date. Check out the full list below. Unique titles I don't recognize, but you should check out: "3000 Miles To Graceland" "DreamWorks Dragons: Race to the Edge" "Atomic Puppet" Best bad movie: "Ocean's Twelve" Most say-nothing title: "On Body and Soul" Most deceptively unlike Quentin Tarantino's "Inglourious Basterds": "Heyday of the Insensitive Bastards" Best title with a slash and colon: "Fate/Apocrypha: Part 2" Most annoying use of a colon: "Re:Mind" Most patriotic: "American Pie" "American Pie 2" "American Pie Presents: Band Camp" "American Pie Presents: The Book of Love" "American Pie Presents: The Naked Mile" "National Parks Adventure" This is part of Streamline, HuffPost's weekly recommendation service for streaming shows and movies. Every Saturday, Streamline ranks the best shows to watch online, including a specific focus on Netflix. Feb. 1  Feb. 2 Feb. 6  Feb. 7  Feb. 8  Feb. 9 Feb. 14  Feb. 15  Feb. 16  Feb. 17  Feb. 18  Feb. 19  Feb. 20 Feb. 21  Feb. 22  Feb. 23  Feb. 24  Feb. 26  Feb. 27  Feb. 1  Feb. 2  Feb. 3  Feb. 5  Feb. 10  Feb. 11  Feb. 12  Feb. 14  Feb. 15  Feb. 16  Feb. 17  Feb. 19  Feb. 20  Feb. 21  Feb. 24  Feb. 28