The phrase "air to water" is the third-most searched-for term by Capetonians, according to data from shopping price comparison site PriceCheck. Making water out of air, could this solve world's water shortages? @VeragonWater #airtowater #lafutura #cooldesign #startup pic.twitter.com/rorGLQDpD6  The website collated data on what Mother City residents are searching for most online as Day Zero approaches. Here are some highlights: A regular sight in Cpt, #jojotanks. #ontheroad pic.twitter.com/mqz104NjzW   Despite the severity of the crisis, it seems that people are keen to keep their gardens looking good – artificial grass is among the five most searched-for products on the site. While it would be tempting for suppliers to push up prices, PriceCheck CEO Kevin Tucker says there hasn't been any abnormal movement in this regard. He does, however, note that "prices of specialised water-saving products and devices are on the rise". According to Tucker, the high demand for these water-related products illustrates how important it is that people in other parts of South Africa learn lessons from Cape Town, and take water saving seriously. "Too many Capetonians have made the change to water-conscious living too late," he said. He pointed out that consumers making small changes could go a long way to helping other cities avoid their own Day-Zero scenarios. Buying things like hand sanitiser, dry shampoo, and wet wipes all mean that less water needs to be used. Additionally, he suggests, people should "use grey water wherever possible and try to keep those taps off unless absolutely necessary". If you live in areas where there are no water restrictions you are most likely irrigating your garden with clean, drinkable water. Do you really need to water your plants with water straight from a mainline supply? If you had an alternative option, will you use it? #greywater pic.twitter.com/XLiIHs2Q2J  Those preparing themselves for Day Zero should, meanwhile, stock up on some basic provisions.