Kids may say the darndest things, but parents tweet about them in the funniest ways. So each week, we round up the most hilarious 280-character quips from moms and dads to spread the joy. Scroll down to read the latest batch and follow @HuffPostParents on Twitter for more! I have so many kids, when I introduce them I simply gesture in their general direction and say, “And this is my kid collection.” Just overheard my 2-year-old exclaim “YAY I DID IT” from the other room. What I learn next will either be exhilarating or horrifying. Listen, you won't actually need anything on your baby registry but an obscene amount of frozen pizzas and coffee. Let’s get married and have kids so instead of going out on Friday night we can get halfway through making brownies and discover we are out of eggs while our kids fight about who likes chocolate more. hiding-while-pooping is my favorite thing about toddlers. I didn't know it was a thing before kids. she creates a small, gated community or fort and you may not look at or speak to her for 10-15 mins. she will call for you, but it is a trick. you may not look. My 3-year-old treats us like we're hearing and visually impaired.Her: Mommy, my shoes are black!Mommy: Yep.Her: (Baby sis), my shoes are black!Baby: gah.Her: Daddy, my shoes are black!Me: I know, I'm still trying to put them on you. 8yo: I love you mommy!*big hugMom: I love you too!8yo: Can I play on your computer?Me: And there it is I’m not saying that the romance is gone, but my husband and I went out for dinner without our kids, and the waiter asked if we needed separate checks. Other mom at a bake sale: I made "two-bite" cupcakes.Me: *shoves three in my mouth at the same time* Bullshit. Me at work: See ya, I’m going out to lunch with my wife and toddlerCoworkers: CoolCoworkers, later: Hey how was lunchMe, work shirt covered in tiny yogurt sauce hand-prints: Like normal There should be a service where you can rent parents to go see your kids play sports in your place. 6-year-old: “I wish I could be immortal.”4-year-old: “I wish I could live in a chocolate house.” Driving after you have kids is 70% driving and 30% throwing snacks at your kids. I never love my children more than when I've had a glass of wine and they're all soundly asleep. Childless friends: currently testing out their new sous vide cookerMe and my husband: rationing frozen chicken nuggets for the week 10yo: I want the last brownie?Me: it’s mom’s10: why!?Me: life advice, son. The last brownie is ALWAYS moms. Always. Stay safe. Fact: the last month of pregnancy has 6459 days. Like its counterpart, the thermometer, the therdadeter just tells you “you’ll live, tough it out” 9yo: You’re annoying. 7yo: No, you’re annoying. 6yo: You’re both annoying. Me: Guys, guys. Calm down. Let me settle this. You all are annoying. 3-year-old: I ate my whole taco!Me: That’s great.3: And I wasn’t scared!Bravery comes in many forms. Kids: Can we have cake for breakfast?Wife: Absolutely not.Kids: Then why is he eating cake for breakfast?Me [mouth full of cake]: BECUFF IM AN ADULTF Share this slide: