Attorney Ajay Sooklal, who formerly represented French arms manufacturer Thales, presented new allegations of arms deal graft in his testimony before a panel at the People's Tribunal on Economic Crime on Monday. The attorney, who had a close relationship with people involved in the arms deal and in the upper echelons of the ANC, gave testimony on alleged bribes used to secure the arms deal and, in particular, to protect its instigators from facing legal repercussions. The allegations relate broadly to the involvement of Thales, formerly Thompson-CSF, a French arms manufacturer and notorious sanctions-buster, in the arms deal, and its links to then Deputy President Jacob Zuma. These were the allegations Sooklal put forward during the Tribunal, some of which were already in the public domain: During the Tribunal, a picture of the previously unseen Alain Thetard -- who allegedly offered the bribe using the secret code "Eiffel Tower" -- was put on display.   Following the initial section his testimony, Sooklal was grilled by panel chair Zac Yacoob as to when he knew or realised Zuma was a "corrupt man". Yacoob, however, demonstrated some frustration with Sooklal who repeatedly insisted the questions asked were not relevant or did not apply to him. Yacoob continued in his attempt to elicit clear answers, offering Sooklal the opportunity to adjourn so he could gather his thoughts and "bear his soul to the public". Evidently uncomfortable with the line of questioning, Sooklal ultimately chose to withdraw as a witness from the Tribunal. Sooklal in 2014 alleged that Thales owed him R70-million in legal fees. The company in1997 won a R2.6bn stake in South Africa's R60bn highly controversial arms program, later subject to investigation in the Seriti Commission. The Commission found no evidence of corruption. The People's Tribunal on Economic Crime -- which has invited submissions on economic crimes that have taken place in South Africa over the last 40 years -- continues at Constitution Hill on Tuesday. The Tribunal has no legal standing, but aims to produce a report in the interests of 'truth-telling' and potential further recourse.