Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has inherited his predecessor's Cabinet and he'll look to stamp his authority on the country's executive soon. But he'll be aware of the deep factional divisions in an already fragile ANC when reshuffling his team. HuffPost's list is conservative – there are easily 10 more ministers that should pack up their executive offices before the state of the nation address. Ramaphosa will be itching for change, but he'll be wary of too much blood on the floor. Some ministers, however, simply have to go. 1. MOSEBENZI ZWANE Minister of mineral resources He is a Gupta deployee and will probably be criminally charged alongside other members of the family.  2. LYNNE BROWN Minister of public enterprises Another Gupta minister. She oversaw the collapse of Eskom while feigning knowledge of corruption. As soon as possible.  3. MALUSI GIGABA Minister of finance He opened the door for the takeover of public enterprises by the Zuptas. Our public finances should not be entrusted to him.   4. DAVID MAHLOBO Minister of energy He was Jacob Zuma's hatchet man, first running intelligence and now pushing the Russian nuclear deal.  5. BATHABILE DLAMINI Minister of social development An embarrassment. She was responsible for the Sassa crisis and has refused to take responsibility for it.   6. FAITH MUTHAMBI Minister of public service and administration She only employs family in her office was responsible for Hlaudi Motsoeneng. Accountability counts. Did you miss this? | Faith Muthambi quietly expanded her office during the Christmas recess, employing among others a "protocol officer", even though such a position did not exist in terms of the ministerial handbook🔒 https://t.co/xZRN1XGpt7  7. NOMVULA MOKONYANE Minister of water affairs and sanitation Her department has all but imploded while she was prancing around laughing about the rand's collapse. 8. MIKE MASUTHA Minister of justice The National Prosecuting Authority needs a strong hand. Masutha can't do it. 9. FIKILE MBALULA Minister of police Apart from his Twitter presence and the use of profanities on social media there isn't much. Crime is a problem, we need real ministers.   10. NATHI NHLEKO Minister of public works He was one of Zuma's staunchest backers and whitewashed the Nkandla report. 11. BONGANI BONGO Minister of intelligence A late Zuma appointee, promoted purely to serve the then head of state. A political lightweight. 12. DAVID VAN ROOYEN Minister of cooperative governance and traditional affairs Really, what does he add to the civil service? Return him to the back benches. There are 35 ministries. 