With the Academy Awards nearly here, it's time to start planning the cocktails worth serving at your stylish viewing party. These five recipes will ensure that you'll be drinking something just as chic as the stars – from bubbles that involve a gilded touch, to twists on the best-picture nominees, drink up and cheers to this year's Oscars. The Front Runner   We've all got our favourite front runners when it comes to the award categories, but almost everyone will agree this cocktail has a good shot of being the best in the show. Ingredients: Method: Fill a mason jar with ice and add Gin, Pimms No. 1, rosemary syrup and lemon juice. Top with ginger beer and add Angostura bitters. Stir. Garnish with apple and lemon slices. Campari By Your Name Before the big night, all the nominees had a chance to get together during the official Oscar Nominee Luncheon. During that luncheon, cocktails themed for each nominated picture were served, including this one – "Call me by your name". Ingredients: Method: Stir the Campari, sweet vermouth and grapefruit juice in a cocktail shaker filled with ice. Strain into a chilled coupe glass and top with sparkling wine. No Words   As a tribute to Sally Hawkins – a silent and powerful portrayal of a woman falling in love with a fish-man in "Shape Of Water" – bartender Zak Doy has incorporated seafood into a classic Caesar. Method: Rim glass with celery salt, add all ingredients to a glass filled with ice, stir and garnish with a clam. The After Party Everyone can celebrate with this winning cocktail, which brings a fresh golden flavour to the evening. Ingredients: Method: Combine vodka, apricot liqueur and lemon juice in a cocktail shaker, shake with ice. Strain, top with sparkling wine and garnish with lemon peel. The Clase Azul Hour   Inspired by Best Picture nominee "The Darkest Hour" this is one of the official cocktails for Elton John's after party – one of the hottest tickets in town on Oscar night. Ingredients: Method: Add the tequila, orange juice and agave nectar to a cocktail shaker filled with ice. Shake for 15-20 seconds. Pour the raspberry juice into an old-fashioned glass with ice. Slowly strain the shaker mix into the glass, keeping the raspberry juice to mix separately. Top with raspberry garnish.