Iceland is considering legislation that would make it the first European country to outlaw male circumcision in children. The bill proposes up to six years imprisonment for anyone who performs a circumcision on a child that is not for medical reasons, The Guardian reported on Sunday. European religious leaders say the restriction would impinge upon religious freedoms. Male circumcision is commonly practiced by Jews and Muslims. In countries like the United States, male circumcision is popular across religions and ethnicities. The World Health Organization estimated in 2009 that about one in three men globally is circumcised. Male circumcision is "a non-negotiable element of Jewish identity," a spokesman for Milah UK, a Jewish campaign group, told The Guardian, adding that Iceland's proposed ban is "extremely concerning." Cardinal Reinhard Marx, president of the Catholic Church in the European Union, called the proposal a "dangerous attack" on religious freedom. "Protecting the health of children is a legitimate goal of every society, but in this case this concern is instrumentalized, without any scientific basis, to stigmatize certain religious communities," Marx said last week, according to the Catholic News Agency. "This is extremely worrying." The bill reportedly has strong public support. Advocates say circumcision violates the rights and bodily integrity of children. Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, a member of parliament from the center-right Progressive Party, said she proposed the bill after realizing there were no restrictions on male circumcision in Iceland, even though female circumcision was outlawed in 2005. "I see it as a child protection matter," Gunnarsdóttir told Euronews. "In Iceland we acknowledge the right to believe but we also acknowledge the right and freedom of everyone to choose and have their opinions." She added: "Children should also have their own rights for their own beliefs when they are adults." The bill says people who want to be circumcised for religious or cultural reasons can do so once they are old enough to "understand what is involved in such an action." The age of consent for the procedure isn't explicitly stated. Male circumcision has long been a controversial issue in Europe. In 2012, Germany ― following months of fierce debate ― ruled that only doctors or trained experts could perform the procedure. In 2016, doctors in Denmark deemed non-medical male circumcisions to be "ethically unacceptable" when performed on children under the age of 18. The potential health benefits of the practice have also been hotly debated. Following a comprehensive review of scientific literature, the American Academy of Pediatrics concluded in 2012 that there were "health benefits of newborn male circumcision," such as lower risks of acquiring HIV, genital herpes, and penile cancer, and that these benefits "outweigh the risks," although some experts have disputed the AAP's 'political' findings including saying it "asserts but does not demonstrate" that benefits outweigh risks. The AAP policy explicitly does not recommend circumcision. It asserts (but does not demonstrate) that benefits outweigh risks. And it is now expired. See: https://t.co/bXMZxm6JJb  There has been opposition to circumcision for a very long time; the 2012 AAP statement was kind of a last gasp attempt to "shore up" medical support for it b/c laws were finally starting to change. See this essay which explains the politics of AAP policy https://t.co/bXMZxm6JJb  The presumed benefits, nevertheless, were not found to be "great enough to recommend universal newborn circumcision," the group said, adding that the "final decision should still be left to parents to make in the context of their religious, ethical and cultural beliefs." Supposed medical benefits provide no justification for #circumcision, but that doesn't necessarily mean it should be banned. https://t.co/sp3gHsnr7O pic.twitter.com/d5J7DgK5FX  With Iceland considering making it illegal to circumcise boys for non-medical reasons, 62% of Brits would support introducing such a law in the UK – only 13% would oppose https://t.co/WDBgZEqgob pic.twitter.com/J8Ap1T3Q1C  Brian Earp @briandavidearp at Oxford has made best ethical arguments against routine male circumcision, e.g. https://t.co/tqkh8Fc3pz This article has been altered/enriched by HuffPost SA with Tweets and further points of debate.