The sole heir to the lip kit empire has been born: Kylie Jenner has given birth. Jenner announced Sunday that she had delivered a girl on Thursday, who weighed in at 8 lbs., 9 oz. She apologized to fans for not confirming the pregnancy sooner, citing her desire for a “stress free” experience. She has yet to reveal the child’s name. She also released a video documenting the pregnancy and confirming rapper/ boyfriend Travis Scott as the baby’s father. Jenner shares footage of ultrasound appointments, gatherings with both her family and Scott’s and interviews with close friends. Throughout the video, friends and family members recount how they first heard about the pregnancy and what a great mother they expect Jenner will be. The video also provides a first glimpse at sister Kim Kardashian and Kanye West’s new baby, Chicago. If you’ve been keeping up with the Kardashian-Jenner clan (who among us has not ― both inadvertently and intentionally), then you know rumors about Jenner’s pregnancy have been swirling for months. Multiple outlets confirmed the pregnancy in September and, despite that, the youngest member of Kris Jenner’s brood never addressed the reports or confirmed to the public that she was pregnant. This refusal to speak wasn’t the worst part. In the weeks leading up to the birth, Jenner only posted photos of things like the new matte lipsticks for her Kylie Cosmetics brand or close-up shots of her face on social media. In Snapchats and other posts where Jenner’s midsection could possibly be seen, any sort of glimpse of a pregnancy was visually obstructed by baggy sweatshirts or oversized T-shirts. A post shared by Kylie (@kyliejenner) on Oct 13, 2017 at 1:33pm PDT The 20-year-old was also bizarrely missing from the family’s Christmas card photo shoot this year ― the Kardashian-Jenners will give us nothing for free! Jenner has been dating Scott since April 2017. The two were first seen together at Coachella not long after Jenner split with rapper Tyga, whom she had dated on and off for a few years. All that’s left to say now is: Congrats, Kylie! This story has been updated with details from the video Jenner released onher pregnancy. Share this slide: