Come March 24, local stars Black Coffee, Cassper Nyovest and Caster Semenya will fly the South African flag high at the 31st annual Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Awards. Black Coffee is nominated in the Favourite Global Music Star category, while both Caster and Cassper are nominated for the Favourite African Star award. 28 years ago we celebrated the late Nelson Mandela 's release from prison after 27 years of fighting for Freedom and Democracy of South Africa this is the same time I was in a car accident that left my left arm partially paralyzed while celebrating......I'm always overwhelmed with emotion on this say....I couldn't sleep last night......it is a morning I'll never forget but I've made a decision not to cry about it anymore but marvel at what God has created. I AM GOD'S VERY OWN. #blessed #keeponmoving #Godsveryown #imhereforapurpose #believe #nevergivein  The awards show is the only live event at which kids' votes count – and the biggest stars of the day line up to get slimed. It also celebrates kids' favourites across movies, television, music and digital. #I AM 1 🔥🔥🔥 #SELFLOVE 📷@clementmaosa  Alex Okosi, the executive vice president and managing director for Viacom International Media Networks Africa, said the awards show offers a platform for African stars to be recognised for their excellence in various talents including music, sport and television, by kids all over the globe. "We are delighted to feature the continent's highly talented nominees in the Favourite African Stars category, where Black Coffee is nominated for the Favourite Global Music Star category alongside international counterparts," he said. History was made!!! Soccer city stadium was filled!!! 68000 tickets sold!!! Thank you!!! I love you!!!! God is good all the time!!! #FillUpFnbStadium 📸 : @jabukiing   The awards show will take place at The Forum in Inglewood, California, and will be hosted by John Cena. Voting lines open on March 5 and March 19 for the categories with South African stars as nominees. Kids can cast their votes on Nickelodeon's digital platforms – including Nick.com and the Nick App on iPad, iPhone, Kindle, and Android devices – by using special KCA hashtags and the hashtag of their favourite nominee. The kids will have the chance to influence the show in real time, with all-new live votes.