South African miniature artist Lorraine Loots has been exhibiting her extraordinary little watercolours all over the world, and tucked between her tiny worlds is a series of some of literature's most special titles, painted really, really small. Here are six books she's painted that we think you need to read: The God Of Small Things by Arundhati Roy   "...the secret of the Great Stories is that they have no secrets. The Great Stories are the ones you have heard and want to hear again. The ones you can enter anywhere and inhabit comfortably. They don't deceive you with thrills and trick endings. They don't surprise you with the unforeseen. They are as familiar as the house you live in. Or the smell of your lover's skin. You know how they end, yet you listen as though you don't. In the way that although you know that one day you will die, you live as though you won't. In the Great Stories you know who lives, who dies, who finds love, who doesn't. And yet you want to know again. That is their mystery and their magic." – "The God Of Small Things", by Arundhati Roy. A Clockwork Orange by Anthony Burgess Halloween 2017 inspiration. ☠️👽 . . . Prints are available at the link in my profile. . . . #paintingsforants #eleven #strangerthings #aclockworkorange A post shared by  Lorraine Loots (@lorraineloots) on Nov 1, 2017 at 12:52am PDT  To Kill A Mockingbird by Harper Lee   "You never really understand a person until you consider things from his point of view... Until you climb inside of his skin and walk around in it." — "To Kill A Mockingbird", by Harper Lee The Jungle Book by Rudyard Kipling Day 94/100 (24/25 #tinytuesdays) : "The Jungle Book" (1894) is a collection of stories by English author Rudyard Kipling. The fables are centered around the boy or "man-cub" Mowgli, who is raised in the jungle by wolves. 23 x 17 mm. 🍂 PLEASE NOTE: This painting will be put up for auction here on @instagram, and prints will be made available via my website. For auction updates, please sign up at lorraineloots.com. #miniature #watercolour #paintingsforants #thejunglebook #mowgli #rudyardkipling #potluck100pfa A post shared by  Lorraine Loots (@lorraineloots) on Dec 6, 2016 at 3:29am PST Harry Potter And The Deathly Hallows by JK Rowling   And then, of course: 365 Paintings For Ants by Lorraine Loots We've just added some more stock of this classic - a retrospective book of all of my 2014 paintings. 🔍 Link in profile. #365postcardsforants A post shared by  Lorraine Loots (@lorraineloots) on May 12, 2017 at 10:50am PDT   