Shine bright, shine far, Lindsay Lohan is not the star... of "Life Size 2". Tyra Banks teased the highly anticipated follow-up (yes, it's actually happening) to Disney Channel's hit 2000 movie "Life Size" on Monday after dropping hints about the project for years. Filming is currently underway for the next chapter of the adventures of a doll named Eve ― played by Banks, naturally ― who comes to life thanks to a magic incantation. The first time around, Lohan starred in the film as a teenager trying to resurrect her late mother, but it looks like actress Francia Raisa has been tapped as Banks' co-star for the sequel. "It's time y'all! You've waited long enough," the "America's Next Top Model" judge wrote alongside a photo of the pair. "Could not find one single woman more perfect to co-star with Eve than the magnificently fierce @franciaraisa." Through the popular GIF of her character typing nonsense into a computer, Banks later specified that "Life Size 2" is set to debut on Freeform in December. Raisa currently stars on the network's "Black-ish" spin-off, "Grown-ish", and has also appeared on Netflix's "Dear White People" and in a main role on "The Secret Life Of The American Teenager". The actress made headlines in September when she donated a kidney to best friend Selena Gomez due to her ongoing battle with lupus. "Cheesin so hard!! Can't believe I get to film one of my childhood favorites," Raisa replied to Banks' tweet. Raisa will play Grace Manning, the "confident and funny CEO of Marathon Toys, a huge toy company started by her mother that is most famous for manufacturing the iconic Eve doll," according to the press release. But Grace is described as a "hot mess in the middle of her quarter-life crisis" whose bad behaviour is causing the company's stock to plummet. While fans of the film were excited about the continuing adventures of Eve, many noted the absence of Lohan, who Banks previously said she wanted to be part of the film. "Yes, I really really want her to," Banks said on "The Steve Harvey Show" about Lohan's potential return. "We're talking about it right now, and she has got to come back!" We're keeping our fingers crossed for at least a Lohan cameo, but in the meantime, we'll just be patiently waiting for December. Share this slide: