The mayor of London has given permission for activists to welcome Donald Trump to the U.K. with a giant inflatable blimp of the U.S. president wearing a nappy and throwing a tantrum. Trump Baby, as it has inevitably been dubbed, will be tethered to a spot in the British capital's Parliament Square Gardens and gaze down in comic anger from 30m up on July 13. A spokesperson for the mayor of London said: "The mayor supports the right to peaceful protest and understands that this can take many different forms. "His city operations team have met with the organisers and have given them permission to use Parliament Square Garden as a grounding point for the blimp." The blimp is the culmination of an online crowd-funding campaign that has so far raised £16,762 (~R300,000). "When Trump visits the U.K. on Friday the 13th of July this year, we want to make sure he knows that all of Britain is looking ... and laughing at him," the crowdfunding page said. "That's why a group of us have chipped in and raised enough money to have a 6-metre high blimp made by a professional inflatables company, to be flown in the skies over Parliament Square during Trump's visit." In other U.K. visit news, the lord mayor of Sheffield has "banned" Trump from his city. Magid Magid made his feelings on the event crystal clear, branding Trump a "wasteman" — slang for someone lacking maturity and achieving little with their life. "I Magid Magid, lord mayor and first citizen of this city hereby declare that not only is Donald J Trump a WASTEMAN, but he is also henceforth banned from the great city of Sheffield!" Magid wrote on Twitter. I Magid Magid, Lord Mayor & first citizen of this city hereby declare that not only is Donald J Trump (@realDonaldTrump) a WASTEMAN, but he is also henceforth banned from the great city of Sheffield!

I further declare July 13th to be Mexico Solidarity Day! 🇲🇽 pic.twitter.com/qYehdHYDEt The 28-year-old Somali refugee was elevated to the office in May, becoming the youngest ever person to hold the job in Sheffield, and made it clear he intended to shake up the world of politics.