President Donald Trump sent his daughter and son-in-law to Jerusalem to help open the new U.S. Embassy there on Monday. While the dignitaries were celebrating this major change in Mideast policy, protests against the decision to move the embassy turned violent in Gaza. According to the Palestinian Health Ministry, Israeli troops shot and killed at least 58 protesters while some 2,700 others were injured. The demonstrations were not mentioned during the embassy ceremony, but many people took to social media to call out White House advisers Ivanka Trump and Jared Kusher for celebrating the opening in the wake of such deadly violence: My god, this image pic.twitter.com/e0xd7SEvq8 Kushner and Ivanka’s presence and public roles at this Jerusalem embassy opening are outlandish. They are Assistants to the President. They have no business and no rank to be speaking for the country at a geopolitical flash point. We don’t have Princes and princesses in America Ivanka Trump is still all smiles at new US embassy in Jerusalem even though Israeli snipers killed 52 Palestinians at Gaza border protests. https://t.co/QFq2CaguHk pic.twitter.com/MSOa5YosOe You lose the PR advantage on this one, #MrTrump, with those two images side be side, Ivanka and Jared yukking it up in Jerusalem while the Palestinians get shot at.  Perfect, you moron. Ivanka “Daddy’s Little Diplomat” Trump opens the new Jerusalem embassy with the traditional, seductive ‘I’m pretending to be a supermodel’ kiss to cameras [at 33 seconds], famous in diplomatic circles since John Adams coquettishly opened the White House.pic.twitter.com/xKo4M9VLoy Jared Kushner failed to disclose that he served as a director for a foundation that funded a controversial Israeli settlement. Is he really the right person to serve as part of the US delegation to Jerusalem?https://t.co/mt8aifJUDk Jared and Bubblehead outside the new U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem. While they are smiling and Ivanka does her best Price Is Right model point, 41 Palestinians were killed and more than 1,600 were wounded by Israeli soldiers whiles protesting on the Gaza Strip. Talk about tone deaf. pic.twitter.com/ssyZY0VQUw pic.twitter.com/BW5O6YYxnY Jared and Ivanka partying it up in Jerusalem while Israeli forces massacre Palestinians in Gaza is a level of depravity you can only find in the Trump and Netanyahu administrations. pic.twitter.com/627cpbnvaG Say what you will about Ivanka Trump, but she is ambitious. Today in Jerusalem she added whitewashing war crimes to her resume whereas before it had only been whitewashing sexual assault, adultery, racism, homophobia, and xenophobia. pic.twitter.com/kvt2M3anUp People who told us Obama lacked experience are quite pleased that Jared Kushner is setting policy. "On behalf of the 45th President of the US, we welcome you officially, and for the first time, to the Embassy of the US, here in Jerusalem.” Ivanka TrumpThis is not our Secretary of State. It’s Trump’s unqualified daughter. Proof nepotism is bad. pic.twitter.com/ACK4TNgUNd Javanka appearing in Jerusalem with Jared making a speech saying trump keeps his promises. Really??? Someone please remind me again why Jared Kushkush, who doesn't even have a security clearance, is delivering a speech at that embassy right now like he's the Secretary of State?? pic.twitter.com/MIUMVgwqb2 pic.twitter.com/XEOo3tSDfw Contrast of the day pic.twitter.com/nIPtEqIxhg Stands in the heart of the #TrumpRussia criminal investigation.Has no security clearance.No diplomatic experience.Born a third generation multimillionaire.Married Trump’s daughter.Why is Jared Kushner speaking for the United States in Israel while Palestine burns? pic.twitter.com/7eao1aa8aN This split-screen shot by @SkyNews on the Jerusalem embassy opening is everything wrong with the Trump administration and Javanka, in particular. Complete refusal to acknowledge how much their actions hurt or damage others, just furious, non-stop spin. pic.twitter.com/q5fi11Wgz1