Hijackings in South Africa increased 14.5 percent between 2016 and 2017, according to the South African Police Service (SAPS), and some 30,664 South Africans were victims, the 2016/17 Victims of Crime Survey revealed. On average, that was 84 hijackings per day. This form of crime is most common in Gauteng, followed by KwaZulu-Natal and Western Cape. "Hijackers are pouncing on unsuspecting vehicle owners wherever the opportunity presents itself," said Warwick Scott-Rodger, executive head of Dialdirect. "Theirs is a multimillion-rand industry in which anything from a meticulously planned hijacking to more opportunistic hits are just another day at the office. South African vehicle owners have to take this very seriously and be thoroughly prepared." According to Dialdirect's crime statistics, the top five vehicle hijacking trends are: 1. Vehicles hijacked at fuel stations Drivers of vehicles are approached by assailants at fuel stations while filling up with petrol. Hijackers approach the driver from his or her blind-spot and force the driver out of the vehicle. 2. Stranger danger Vehicle owners are approached at social spots by strangers who try to befriend them and later spike their drinks, take their keys and make off with their vehicle. 3. Blue-light robberies Vehicle owners are pulled over by imposters posing as traffic or police officials — often in unmarked vehicles. Once they are pulled over, they are overpowered and their vehicles taken. 4. Vehicles taken in house robberies Vehicle owners are overpowered in their homes and vehicles are taken along with other possessions. 5. Vehicles hijacked after driver is followed home. Assailants follow vehicles home, after which owners are boxed in and hijacked in their driveway. Assailants often wait for the owner to enter the property and then block the security gate from closing behind them.    According to vehicle tracking company Ctrack, these were the most stolen or hijacked car brands in 2016:   Dialdirect offers the following tips to reduce your chances of becoming a victim:    "None of us can afford to think that 'It won't happen to me'. We have to be vigilant and thoroughly prepared for the worst," Scott-Rodger concluded.