There's no doubt that feeding your kids well can be a challenge. There's the fussy eating, which is no joke. There's their occasional refusal to sit at the table (are you even really a parent until you've chased a toddler around the living room, begging him or her to try some eggs?). And when you do find a food your kid loves, there's a good chance it's all they will ever want to eat again (can a child live off hot dogs, though?). But with childhood obesity rates nearly tripling over the last 30 years, and new research that finds children are the biggest consumers of ultra-processed foods, it's important to make sure our kids are eating nutritious, healthy meals ... even if all they want to eat is pizza. Luckily, there are tons of great and yummy-looking alternatives out there. And we rounded some up for you. Here are some healthy alternatives to classic kid favourites that look just as tasty as the originals: 1. Spaghetti squash tater tots   Try these if your kids love: Tater tots Get the recipe:Listotic 2. Cinnamon apple chips   Try these if your kids love: Gummy fruit snacks Get the recipe:Carrie's Experimental Kitchen 3. Oven fried chicken   Try these if your kids love: Fried chicken Get the recipe:The Food Network 4. Balsamic grilled carrot dogs (yes, really!)   Try these if your kids love: Hot dogs Get the recipe:Well Vegan 5. Quinoa pizza bites   Try these if your kids love: Pizza, pizza pockets, pizza bites Get the recipe: Live Well Bake Often 6. Baked shells with winter squash   Try these if your kids love: Mac and cheese Get the recipe: Martha Stewart 7. Loaded veggie grilled cheese sandwiches   Try these if your kids love: Grilled cheese Get the recipe:The Dreaming Foodie 8. Homemade alphabet soup   Try this if your kids love: Canned alphabet soup Get the recipe:Genius Kitchen 9. Whole wheat blueberry pancakes with maple yogurt sauce   Try these if your kids love: Pancakes Get the recipe:Pop Sugar 10. Chocolate banana frozen yogurt bark   Try this if your kid loves: Ice cream Get the recipe:My Fussy Eater  Also on HuffPost: 