Employers need to make it easier for young people to find jobs. That's the word from Lulaway CEO Jake Willis, who says it costs jobseekers about R550 a month in transport and administrative costs to actively search for a job in South Africa. Willis says research indicates that an average of R350 is spent on transport and R200 on internet costs and printing. "Young people who spend several months looking for jobs often exhaust their personal savings as well as every other channel open to them, such as loans from family, friends or microlenders." Willis notes that most organisations are aware of the importance of employing people who live close to the workplace. "This is because the risk of drop-off is much higher when employees have to spend a large percentage of their salary on transport." That being said, employers do not always consider how much it costs for jobseekers to apply for jobs and attend interviews. How can employers make it easier for jobseekers? Willis suggests several creative ways companies can help reduce the costs related to applying for a job: What can jobseekers do to keep job-hunting costs down? Willis suggests young people also investigate ways to ensure they don't spend too much money applying for jobs. "Government bodies such as the NYDA and GCRA allow young people to apply for jobs for free. This involves going into their offices, which are usually centrally located, and completing an online application. "Young people should also look out for career fairs, or career drives, organised by youth employment organisations in their communities to recruit people for certain programmes or projects. They can also read local newspapers and listen to local radio stations to find out about these types of opportunities," adds Willis. He also suggests jobseekers consider the following measures to optimise their job-seeking activities: Willis says he is acutely aware of the challenges faced by young people on the hunt for a job. "We are constantly on the lookout for ways to make the jobseeking process easier, as well as for opportunities to partner with the public and private sectors in identifying and creating more jobs for the country's youth."